5 funny enjoyable read for a reluctant reader!  Only wish there were more books available from this author as my son has read them all!
5 I came to this book as a grown-up fan of David Walliams, interested to see what his kids' books were like. This was the first one I read and although I like "Mr. Stink" and "Billionaire Boy" too I think it's his best, maybe because there's such a strongly felt autobiographical element to it. David has discussed before the fact that his college girlfriend used to like to dress him up as a girl and take him out nightclubbing, so conclusions can be reasonably drawn about the central situation in this book--twelve-year-old Dennis is befriended by an older girl he's got a crush on, who talks him into letting her dress him up like a Barbie doll and taking him to school that way. It makes me a little uncomfortable to think about children reading a book which is basically about the birth of a cross-dressing fetish. But then David has made a career out of making people uncomfortable with his sometimes edgy humor, so a certain lack of inhibition is to be expected. There is a need for books for children that deal with uncomfortable topics in an intelligent and compassionate way, and I do think that, as with his entertainments for adults, David does a good job of leading us to that nervous-making edge in a reasonably responsible and socially redeeming manner. Lessons are learned about kindness and tolerance and the importance of caring for one another, which as it turns out are recurring themes in the children's literature of David Walliams. The opening chapters describing Dennis' grief at his mother's disappearance from his life and the cruelty of the macho code that prevents Dennis and his brother and father from expressing love and concern for one another are very moving, and though just a little Hollywoody for my taste the big happy unrealistic fantasy ending is again vintage Walliams--after all, his biggest claim to fame is a comedy sketch series in which wheelchair-bound men can walk whenever they want to and psychotic women break into perfect lucidity when using cell phones.The only drawback about Walliams' chapterbooks to me as an American reader is that they are written in a very distinctive British idiom full of colloquialisms and references to UK-specific products. As with "Little Britain," a certain amount of Googling has to take place if you want to get specifics about which celebrity or brand of candy bar is being mentioned, but it's not that important as you can usually get the gist from the context. Though some of those candies look really good.
4 This is a book that's not just for kids. A child's fantasy come true and a worthwhile read for any age. However, I must point out that there are a couple of annoying but minor technical glitches for Kindle, text-to-speech listeners that one needs to skip over. I think these are caused by a illustrations that were scanned as text. Not a deal breaker though.
4 Dennis is a young boy with a lot on his shoulders.  His mom left, his dad is kind of a mess, his brother is angry, and Dennis is just trying to deal with school and soccer.  Dennis discovers that he adores fashion, to the point where it may cost him everything he holds dear.I adored this book, and the message that is sends to the children who read it.  I love that Dennis takes passion in the things he loves, even if other people find them strange choices.  I also love that Dennis does not conform to any stereotypes or labels.  I like the message of the book- that it is not just ok to be an individual, it is awesome, and people will love you for it.The book made me giggle, even as an adult, so I think many kids will find it funny.  It definitely has a UK flavor to it, so it may seem a little odd in spots to American kids, but I still think they will relate to it.
1 I recently discovered &#34;Peep Show&#34; and got into the comedy of Mitchell and Webb. I also enjoy their sketch comedy show, which I found on Hulu. This book isn't very coherent, and it seems like a bunch of half-baked ideas just thrown together. I felt kind of silly while I was reading it.
5 I love Mitchell and Webb. I got this as a gift, so I didn't get to read it in depth. But the bits I did have a chance to look at were hilarious.
5 Not only is this book very funny, it is so "deluxe" that it's actually a lot BETTER made than I thought it would be! (How often can you say that about something you buy?)  It's an oversize hardback that is "schoolbook style" -- meaning there is no paper dust jacket, because the art is printed directly on the glossy outer cover.  Inside, the production is really lavish, with color and pix throughout -- even more elaborate than the great Monty Python books of yesteryear.  Mitchell and Webb fans will love it!
3 Like most BBC products, especially those wonderful DVDs of Mitchelll and Webb, this book is also region coded.  You wont be able to read this on region 1 eyeballs.  Perhaps in a secret attempt to keep americans away!  Get region coding for US BBC so I can watch these guys!
5 If you are a big fan of Mitchell and Webb, this is a definite great find. It is just what you'd expect from them. It's not some boring biography, but a garbled mess of fun!
4 I almost gave this one five stars because it was almost literally impossible to put down.  In the same way that the "ghosts" in the story draw certain of the characters in spite of their terror, I was drawn into the story, pulled to finish the book though I was horribly frightened as I read.  (To put this in context: I read the bulk of the story huddled on my bed, through the evening and into the wee hours of the morning, completely alone on an uncharacteristically quiet night, while waiting for my fiance to come back from a late party.)I have read one other book by Ms. Erskine, and I remember it as frightening but very good.  This one was equally good and twenty times more terrifying.It's a love story, in a way, but while that part is vital to the plot, it's not at all the focus.  More directly, it's the story of a successful present-day writer renting an old cottage on the shores of the North Sea, who -- along with several acquaintances and the family that rents the cottage to her -- stumbles into a tightening net of two-thousand-year-old hatred, horrible buried truth, and driven revenge forcing its way to the surface.It's a tale that literally sucks you in, holding you hostage to an intoxicating brew of emotion that is equal parts fear and driving curiosity.  The backstory, woven in and coming swiftly together with modern events, fills it in for you: a powerful Roman official, his beautiful faithless adored wife, the druid and prince with whom she falls in love, cruelty that swirls out of control and beyond the bounds of death...The major problem with the story is the ending, which is abrupt and somewhat contrived.  Still, this is far more sophisticated than your standard ghost story, crossing and blurring the lines between psychological thriller and supernatural horror novel.  If you're into that sort of thing, read it for the best effect at night, alone, away from city sounds and human company -- but I'd recommend leaving the lights on.
2 I'm a Barbara Erskine fan but this is not one of her best. I love the whole idea of a writer going to an isolated cottage to work on her book. The historical context is intriguing and could have been great, but the biggest problem for me is that the book just isn't scary. A suspense novel should pull you in and make you want to keep reading it, but I struggled to stay interested.I also couldn't accept Kate's reasons for staying at the cottage after it was broken into and a room trashed, on top of all the other frightening things that happened there, and the romance was non-existent. Jon was a jerk and Kate's attraction to Greg seemed forced. I picked straight away that Bill was the expendable character who was going to die, and when he did after they chose not to take him to the hospital immediately with serious head injuries I gave up on the book. It was especially aggrevating when Kate told him to go to sleep and then a couple of lines later indicated she thought he had a concussion! I had read this book once before a long time ago but can't remember if I enjoyed it or not.If this is your first Barbara Erskine book and you've had the same reaction as me please try her other books as (from memory) they are much better
4 I really liked this book, except for the end.  I understood early on that the anger and jealousy would end up being replayed in Kate, Greg, and Jon but I couldn't figure out which one of the guys would be Marcus or Nion.But, the ending really confused me.  Is Kate now 'possessed' by Claudia or is she still Kate, in love with Jon?  Is Jon now 'possessed' by Nion or is he still Jon, in love with Kate?  Is Greg now 'possessed' by Marcus and will pursue Kate/Claudia and Jon/Nion?  Or is the ending saying that he let go of Marcus out of his love for Kate?Very confusing.  But, aside from that, I loved the book.  Read the first half one night and stayed up until 2:00 AM the next night reading the last half.  Could not put it down.  Would have liked a lot more clarity for the ending though.
5 I read all novels by Barbara Erskine (but am not a lover of short stories, so I skipped those) and compared with Stephen King this book was even more scary.Also I enjoyed the idea of a woman leaving civilization behind and living for a few months in a cottage on the Essex coast (wish there would be more books on that topic!).I read the book when it was released in Germany many years ago and since then I read it two more times. In November 2008 I finally made my dream come true and did visit the Roman Museum in Colchester (the one mentioned in the book). It's definitely worth a trip!Hope that Mrs. Erskine will write another book as thrilling as "Midnight is a lonely Place"!
5 When author Kate Kennedy escapes London for a remote cottage on the North Essex cost, she hope to heal from her broken love affair.  Soon though, eerie sounds of doors opening by themselves, shocking vandalism and smells of musky perfume and damp earth are filling Kate's nights with fear.  Who is playing pranks on her?  Kate discoves a Celtic necklace which leads her to believe that the voices intruding on her mind and the strange curses appearing on her computer screen may be connected to something beyond this time and place.A well written suspenseful novel that keeps your attention.
5 I'm giving this book 5 stars because yes, I DO LOVE IT...but that doesn't mean it doesn't have minor annoyances.This is one of my two favorite Erskines to date. My other favorite of hers is House of Echoes. Both of these books are terribly spooky, far more in the line of traditional ghost stories than supernatural suspense or historical romance. They rely more on the ghostly incidents to drive the plot.I'm not a huge fan of romance, so I admit I may be biased but I've repeatedly found Erskine's male characters left a heckofalot to be desired as leading men. They are often petty, childish, shallow and self serving in a nasty & supercilious way of self absorbed, spoiled jerks who have been told once too often that they are superior beings and that anyone with whom they are involved should adore, serve and make excuses for them. Men like this crop up all too often in Erskine's books and Midnight gives us not one but TWO of this revolting type. The only difference is in degree and the realization by one of these men that maybe he played the jerk.The women, like Midnight's Kate, are that particularly British brand of Mary Sue,character who is adult and sophisticated to the point of borderline alcoholism (we must drink wine or whiskey...no matter WHAT degree of danger we are in. As adults it behooves us to DRINK ourselves into insensibility even when we SHOULD have the brains god gave geese and try to stay alert)How these women who are so frighteningly intelligent, sophisticated and aggressively grown-up fetch up with such worthless, spoiled narcissists for partners is beyond me, unless they hooked up with these men while in a whiskey induced haze...which, considering the drinking habits of most of Erskine's characters is very, very likely.Erskine is not very kind to her secondary characters either. In Midnight is a Lonely Place we meet the Lindsays, who appear to be two of the last humans on earth who should ever have had children since they ignore blatant red flags from their obviously intensely troubled son and daughter.Regardless of the pointlessly nasty, snotty and angry attitude of the daughter, Allie...who, being 15 (I think) is hardly young enough to be excused for being a foul mouthed little ogre the Lindsays, who are wealthy enough to have an AGA, (ALL Erskine's main characters ONLY have this, very expensive brand of stove in their house. Ownership of an AGA seems to be Erskine's way of separating the bookish classes from the chaff in her books. Even if you are poor as a snake, if you are from an educated background you cook on an AGA) also ignore the more troubling signs of immaturity and blatant selfishness (An Erskine hero in the making) in Greg, their adult son who is in his late 20s or early 30s and tries to enlist his little sister to help him scare Kate out of the cottage she is renting from his parents because...wait for it...Greg, a wannabe painter likes to crash there and paint while his father is at home dying of cancer and the family money is running low!Of course the Lindsays are too "civilized" to sit Greg's overgrown spoiled-brat butt down and spell out a few hard home truths to him about terminal illness, financial need, why adult sons living at home with a dying parent just might want give over with playing the 18th century gentleman dilettante artist, go out get a paying job and leave painting for the hobby it is, and so on, and so he continues along his merry path, being sarcastic and insulting to the woman whose money the family desperately needs.It's characters like these that frequently make Erskine's books a bit tough to immerse myself in. Characters she works hard to present in a sympathetic light, and with whom we are clearly meant to identify, are utter irresponsible imbeciles who silently accept their son's arrogant pretensions and cater to the wishes of of the rude and tediously spiteful Alison, who can barely manage to say "Hello" without giving a "challenging" look and whose hostile boorishness seems entirely unwarranted and goes unexplained throughout the book!Erskine creates a similarly infuriating character in House of Echoes, but there she takes care to make sure the reason for the character's presence is ironclad, and since the character is an adult woman and the sister of the main female protagonist you can see why there'd be no real changing her, but parents who allow their daughter to be rude and hostile and simply accept it as normal...say whaaat..? Parents who allow a grown son to continue along displaying all the maturity of a wailing 5 year old dragged too soon out of a bounce house?No, Barbara, no.If it hadn't been for the ghost story, which is brilliantly spooky with its connection to pre-Christian era Britain, and for the the masterful atmosphere of isolation and mounting danger there would be no reason on earth to spend time with these characters.But THAT explains why I give this story 5 stars. In spite of being so top heavy with hateful characters to the point where only two of the Lindsay men, and a secondary character of a cabbie named Pete seem really likable, the mood, setting and story save the day.
3 What did I just read?:Oh yeah, Barbara Erskine.:Ummm, does anybody have an extra 6 reading hours to spare? I'd like to get them back if possible.OK, refocus.In this Barbara Erskine doosie, the murderous results of a Roman/Celtic love triangle over 19 centuries old (that's 1,900 years to those of you numerically challenged) is threatening to engulf our intrepid heroine Kate, her erstwhile poet boyfriend Jon, and the petulant, acts-like-a-14-year-old-but-is-really-27 year old landlord's son Greg. These three frankly irritating characters traipse through the marshy dunes of North Essex, England trying to figure out the curse, stop the ghosts from inhibiting the inside of their heads, and make it to the final lackluster pages of our book with their sanity and entrails intact.****SPOILER ALERT***They do.***END SPOILER ALERT***But at what cost to the gentle reader? That's the real curse.OK, here's what Erskine does right:- Sets mood- Creates atmosphere- Generates thrills & chills- Includes a decent smattering of historical data (it's not as detailed as she's capable of, but it's there)Here's what Erskine needs work on:- Editing- Editing- Editing- Some editing would be niceHere's what Erskine should avoid:- Relationships involving a man/men and a woman (aka: "romance").Just....no. Don't do it, Barbara. It's painful to read and there's no reason to bog down a good spookie with a cast of immature characters masquerading as adults in love. I've found that the typical Erskine heroine is generally a decorative doormat in search of a ghost to rescue them from their romantic folly. The Erskine male normally has the emotional maturity of an Adam Sandler fan club president (which really makes it quite impressive that they can STILL manage to wipe their feet on said doormat heroine).So why, you ask, do I read Erskine and write this (waaaaaaaay too long) review of a book 15 years old??Because when Erskine is good, she can literally make the hairs stand up on the back of my neck.Can cause me to jump when my refrigerator makes a funny gurgle.Can force me to read her books only with another human being in the house.I live for those moments in an Erskine book, and she delivers. Regardless of my frustration with her characters, regardless of my wasted time spent wandering the frozen Essex shoreline in search of a decent plot, and in spite of my book hurling spleen vented at the abrupt and lousy ending, I love it when a good Erskine sentence makes me glance surreptiously around the room in search of the shadow I thought I just saw out of the corner of my eye.And that, my Amazon friend, is why I'll continue to read Barbara Erskine like a doormat girlfriend takes her petulant boyfriend back again and again.
5 This is a very well written and absorbing novel by a master story teller. It is highly descriptive and captures the reader in its thrall. It is a chilling and imaginative ghost story centered around a love triangle that existed approximately two thousand years ago and ultimately ended in murder. The murderer, Marcus, a Roman legionaire, is cursed by his wife, Claudia, after he has her lover, Nion, a druid priest, killed. Marcus then kills Claudia. It is this tragedy that now haunts the present.When London based author, Kate Kennedy, breaks off with her selfish live in lover, she goes off to lick her wounds and nurse a broken heart in a cottage in a remote area of North Essex. The cottage, though cozy, begins to become a less than hospitable place, when unexplained sounds, scents, and traces of moist earth and sand begin to manifest themselves. Moreover, her landlord's son, Greg, and daughter, Allison, seem determined to have her leave the cottage.Discovering that Allison has come across an archaeological site not far from the cottage, Kate goes to the site and finds an ancient Celtic ornament. She soon begins to hear voices in her mind and see visions of what cannot be. Ultimately, Greg, Allison, and Kate become trapped in the miasma of these ancient star crossed lovers who are determined to bring their long dormant conflict to resolution. The cost to those in the present is dear, as the reader will soon find out.Be warned. This is a scary book.
4 I feel I took a risk in reading this book. I had loved Barbara Erskine up until reading On the Edge of Darkness, which was very disappointing. But this book was a pleasant surprise.After breaking up with her boyfriends Kate needs an inexpensive place to stay and write her new book on the poet Byron. So she rents a small cottage in northern England from a family who needs the money because the father (Roger) is dying of cancer. The elder son of the family, Greg, is pissed about the renting of the cottage-where he previously lived and painted. The daughter, Allison, has recently discovered a roman burial site on the beach that is about to be washed away by the tide that she thinks she'll excavate. But then creepy things start to happen.This book is much more action packed than past books of Erskine's. The middle two hundred pages are non stop creepy action, and quite enjoyable. The ending however, was not so hot. It was very abrupt and kind of a let down from all that led up to it.So this book rates a solid 3.5 stars. I wouldn't advise reading it for your first Erskine book, but if you enjoyed her other books you'll like this one.
5 I love this book, Barbara Erskine is an excellent writer that keeps you turning the pages.She puts history along with supernatural suspense in this book, well worth buying more of this authors books.The book arrived well before the estimated delivery times, was packaged well and as described.
3 This is the 4th novel of Barbara Erskine's that I have read.  And this is the one that I like the least.  Unlike House of Echoes, this did not scare me, and unlike Lady of Hay and Child of the Phoenix, this book did not  transport me to another time and place.I can't place my finger on what  it was, but the story just seemed a little flat.  Maybe there were too many  characters and they were fairly bland and cliched.  I didn't understand  which of the two male leads I was meant to like, and decided on Greg who  was fleshed out better than Jon.It was still an interesting story and  it won't disuade me from reading more from this author.
5 I have never read a ghost story quite like this.  It takes place in Essex, England and revolves around a love story which took place about 2,000 years ago when Roman Empire occupied UK.  Kate Kennedy has just broken up with her egocentric and selfish boyfriend.  She moves to Redall Cottage, owned by Diana and Roger.  She soon discovers strange noises and even a break-in, involving vandalism of paintings done by Greg, the former resident of the cottage.  With all the odd and unexplainable phenomena, she reaches out to Diana and Roger, who are at a loss to explain this.  Things steadily worsen with discovery of a grave and some artifacts.  The form of a woman is seen by several on the beach, which seems to be following them.  Suspense and intrigue keep building to a fever pitch with danger at every turn.  The author sets her story on England's eastern coast along the beach adding stormy cold weather with fierce winds and crashing waves which enhances the gloom and doom of the story.  She is excellent with her characterizations and keeps up the suspense and mystery.  Overall the idea of a ghost coming back from thousands years ago to take its revenge on the modern day residents is hard to swallow.  With any other author, it would seem ridiculous and implausible.  However, Erskine is able to handle this well.  Her characters do feel a sense of danger from Marcus and Claudia, the ghosts which are creating havoc in their lives.  Kate and Greg almost become victims of Marcus.  The ending is very surprising and makes this book worth reading.If you live alone, you may not want to read this, as it will chill you to the bone.
4 This book geniunely spooked me, and I thought it was a great escape read with lots of twists and turns.  However, I had built myself up for a great ending, and when it did end, I was confused.  Who did she end up with?  Was Greg an evil something?  I just did not comprehend what happened, even  though I've gone back and re-read the ending.  Otherwise, I really enjoyed  the rest of it, even if I felt like a ninny for not understanding the  ending!
5 A page turner.  One hard to put down.  The ending is breath-taking.  If you like your hair to stand on end and feel as if you can not read quickly enough, you need to read this one.
5 I couldn't put the book down. It was a very heartfelt account of a caregiver to a 13 year old girl in need. I was able to keep up with no problem and everything was easy to understand. l like I had became a part of this story and worried how everything would work out for the girl. I'm glad I made it to the end to find out.
5 This is an awesome, yet sad, book! I recommend this book to anyone who likes reading true stories that have problems in them. This is a success story of a young girl.
5 This story was a tough read because of all of the difficulties that this little girl and the family that fosters her go through. But it is also inspiring, touching, and really beautiful. It's amazing to read the struggles that they go through, yet the keep getting back up and trying again. The love the family shows this little girl is really incredible. I couldn't put it down!
2 Poorly written.  Editing was miserable.  Story was okay.  Grandparents seemed Naive art best.  A little too simplistic and fictional.  Better literature exists.
4 Although there were some differences in the foster care system in England and in Maine, where I worked for the Department of Human Services, it was a very moving story about one family's struggle to help a very severely hurt young girl.  I was gratified to know that she grew up, married and had a normal home life.  Not all stories of foster care end so well.  A well written account of this child's relationship to her foster parents.
2 This story started nowhere and went nowhere.  I was extremely disappointed in it.  The character development just did not exist.  This (cutting) is a very serious issue and the story made it seem like a quick fix was all that was needed.  This writer seems to be taking advantage of her foster charges as the subjects of poor books.
5 This book was wonderful to read. It reminded me of my own childhood, although I was never raped as a kid, things happened  to me in my childhood I can't take back. Reading this, brought back memories of my own childhood. I was as to relate to this story, and I couldn't seem to put it down. Cathy Glass is a great writer and will purchase some more of her books.
3 Cathy Glass does a good job describing life with her emotionally damaged foster child.  In this book, she recounts the story of one of her first foster children.
5 Having been a foster parent in the United States, I can relate to Cathy's portrayal of how social workers "dump" teens on unsuspecting caregivers without telling the whole story, and how they ignore the possible harm that can come to your own children.  In addition, she details how frequently the demands of the teen is considered more important than the normal houserules of the foster parents.Cut is a story of one teen who has extremely serious issues that is placed with Cathy, who has a newborn of her own.  The social worker REFUSES to allow any disclosurwe of the true events that caused her to come into the system in the first place, and basically allows the teen to make up her own rules such as being allowed to be out for periods where she does not have to account for her whereabouts.Although some of the problems have recently been resolved (dumping kids without proper background information}, the overworked social workers who have to find homes for unwanted children in a system that is already overloaded and understaffed still exists.In "Cut," Cathy tells the story of one 13 year old who had a past that created such severe problems in her that the child could be considered unsafe in a "normal" home.  The way Cathy and her husband stuck it out and worked with this child is amazing.  Cathy does an amazing job of telling the story in such a way that the reader can feel the severe pressure of all involved - the family, the child, the social workers, etc.All of Cathy's books should be read by anyone considering becoming a foster parent, because they allow readers to see the dedication that is required, how they may have to fight "the system," and finally, how those who can handle the stress can help a child turn their lives around.
3 If you want to read about  a troubled foster child,you will enjoy this book.  The build up was bigger than the story, however.
4 I both liked and disliked this book.  I am giving it four stars, because there is nothing wrong with the book or the telling of the story itself.  I find that I have a strong reaction to the way most of the characters acted at one time or another in this book.  I was very frustrated at the was the British Foster Care System worked and I'm sure I would probably have the same reaction, if this story happened in America.  This is a true story about the first foster care experience of the author.  More power to her, because I do not know how I would have acted in the same circumstance.  Usually, I would find myself thinking &#34;What's wrong with these people!&#34;  This must have been a good book to elicit strong reactions and to make me feel that I am experiencing the same things the author did.This book is one of many that Ms. Glass has written about being a foster parent.  I hope to read more, but I will admit that I will have to give myself time to recover before starting a next book.  That is, time to emotionally recover.  Once you realize the potential of strong emotional content, you will have to put yourself in the right frame of mind to knowingly read the next story.
5 The book did have its slow parts but I am glad I read it. With all of the troubles Cathy went through I would still consider her time with Jane to have been a success!
3 it's been a while since I read this.  it was good, but disturbing.  I feel so sad for kids like her
5 This true story was a page turner for sure. Cathy & John had a lot of patience & determination. I will be reading more of Cathy's books. This story will stay in my mind forever.
5 Cathy Glass and her husband are saints! They took in Dawn, a child with a horrible past, and tried to give her the best life that they could. Dawn was a trying child, but in the end she found her niche.
4 It's a good thing child protective services have changed!  I believe this story took place outside the USA, but the system neglected to protect her wherever she was (Canada?).  The Social Worker was horrible and frustrating.  As a former foster parent in the USA I am happy to report that my husband & I were never treated so poorly and we were provided with much more information in order to provide the best care we could, knowing the issues that our kids were dealing with is essential!
5 The author is one of many unsung heroes in our world.  And the abandoned and abused little girl is equally heroic in that she was able to wake up and face each day in spite of horrible emotional pain and fear.... Mainly because of the stability and support of the love in her foster home.  I was go glad that their story had a happy ending!
5 This book could have been about my wife's life sorta.It was touching,emotional, and heartbreaking. I would suggest everyone read this,it will really open your eyes.
4 After reading this interesting book I thought to myself how lucky I am that I had a very good childhood and wonderful parents.  This  is a story of the author (and her husband) deciding to  parent foster children and the problem child they got on their first case.l  Initially  Cathy was not getting pregnant and she wanted children so the idea of fostering filled her need for parenting.  She was most compassionate and was a great mother, yet her ward was something else which you learn all about.
5 This book held my interest to the very end. Very open honest and informative. Good for anyone who truly cares about children.
4 sad story, but very real.  I'm glad there was someone in this young girl's life to show her that not every one is bed, and there is a way back to living a normal life.
5 This was the first book I bought for my new kindle.  I loved Cathy Glass' story and writing so much that I have now purchased six of her books.  I taught special eduation for 33 years and am now retired.  She gets me thinking of fostering children because she is so good at what she is doing.
3 A very interesting insight into how the adoption system works. What an amazing woman Cathy is. thank goodness people like her exist.
4 This book kept your interest . You kept wanting to read more to see what happened next in the child's life. Well  written n.a.
4 Care giving can be a twofold mixed blessing sometimes rough but rewarding. Sexual abuse more disturbing when it's family and heartbreaking for victims. Boys need to be taught that girls of any age should be respected and parents seem to be deaf in that regard. It should never  be tolerated.
5 I love non fiction and this author Haas proven herself to me to be a very good writer. Although I found several spelling and grammatical errors, . I'm not sure that they were her errors or mistakes in converting the book to e-reader format. She really drew me into the story and had me up till well into the middle of the night to find out how it all turned out. Well done, I will likely be reading more of her work in the future.
5 Cathy Glass details the frustrations of fostercare yet constant in loving the child.  Her unique style holds the reader's attention.
5 The author is so compelling and describes the story so well.  You feel you are a part of the story. Excellent
4 A heartwarming story, sad but uplifting too. Would recommend it. Kudos to caregivers like Cathy glass. There should be more like her.
5 A true inside look in the world of a hurt child and the only way she knows to help herself. A heartfelt story and the courage of a young girl and a foster care worker who really cares.
5 It is so sad to think that any one would feel better about herself after inflicting pain. Cathy glass gives an excellent account of how she and her husband felt watching this and  how they coped..
5 This book broke my heart, I don't think I have cried so much reading a book in a long time. Very movine.
4 This book was an excellent read.  From the beginning, this book kept your interested.  I commend John and Cathy for never giving up on the child and yet, I felt all the pain that Dawn was experiencing, wishing I could help in some way.  I had a hard time trying to  put the book away at times and found myself wanting to read more just to see what was happening.
4 Its a harrowing tale, but the manner the books is written in is disconcerting.  I feel bad for the girl, and never fully understood what the family that had did to her to give her such a damaged self image.  It really portrays the foster family in and odd life too.  I gave it a good rating, but its a draining story.
4 Cathy Glass must be a saint.  To deal with Dawn and a new baby would be hard for any mother to not give up!Thankfully Dawn finally got the help she needed.
5 I'm a 55 year old man and, though I'm a sensitive type, this is not the type of book I would normally go for. But I tried the Kindle sample and really got involved in this story. And I walked away from it having learned some things about people and family and love (and all that).And guys, it's not too mushy.It's part drama and part mystery and is very well written and engaging. I'm going to try some of Cathy's other books. If you like the sample you will like the book.  It's that simple.
5 I have read many book written by Cathy Glass and I have loved every one of them.  Especially this one.  The way Cathy wrote this one kept me reading, every opportunity I got.  Finishing the book in only two day I can't wait to get another one of Cathy books.  She is such an amazing person for what she does for all her kids.
5 I really enjoyed this book. Felt very sad for what the little girl went through all her life. I would recommend this book, very good reading
4 Kathy Glass writes with humor and with love and compassion.  She is a pro at foster parenting, and helps readers to identify with the problems of abused and abandoned children.
5 I believe that God must have placed that poor girl with Cathy and saved her life.  Cathy loved that girl no matter what she did, true unconditional love. Such a compelling story of love prevailing over evil.
5 Great item! Recommend for other people to buy. works perfectly with my kindle on my ipad and i love it
4 A story that is hard to read (in terms of subject matter), and yet worth the effort. Dawn is the second child Cathy Glass and her husband fostered, and she's a very disturbed girl. Rejected by her parents and running from secrets she believes are too horrible to redeem, Dawn is broken and lost. At 13 she stays out all night, drinks, cuts herself, skips school, and attempts suicide more than once. But she can also be a pleasant and agreeable child who shows affection and seeks the approval of her caregivers.This story is easy to read in terms of language choice and narrative flow, and difficult in terms of subject matter. Seeing Dawn's story unfold and feeling Cathy's love, concern, frustration, and despair provides a visceral, moving experience. I felt for Cathy, sympathizing with her desire to provide Dawn the loving, stable environment the girl desperately needed, but unable to overcome a broken system and even more broken girl. I was frustrated for her, John, and Barbara. I felt each of them wanted what was best for Dawn, even Barbara, in her own flawed way. But the system, meant to help threatened and disadvantaged children, seemed to do more harm than good. My heart broke for Dawn, and the more Cathy revealed about her past, the more I hoped she would somehow be able to turn it all around and claim the happy life she deserved.While I enjoyed the story a great deal, I can only give 4 stars because I felt Glass occasionally went into far too much detail. There's a fine line between providing enough detail to orient the reader fully within with story, and too much detail. I felt a number of the instances of "I did this, followed by this, followed by this" neither advanced the plot nor revealed necessary information about the people involved. I found there were passages I wanted to skip just to get back to the plot, and that was discouraging.
5 Good book.  Very well written.  This was a very real story about a very troubled young girl who got the help and guidance she needed.  It is very frightening to think what  might have happened to her if the circumstances were different..
4 Book gave an unbiased, factual account of the lack of the social service system in those days.  Hopefully that has changed.  Story did lack details of child's early childhood.  Account given in a stoic way of the English.
4 very well written story, after reading it I realized that nothing much has changed in regard for those poor children
5 While reading this book I think to my self. Wow why on earth do some people treat children so badly. However than special people come along like this author and write about her life experiences about these children. This book was a great read. It was amazing to read about the ups and downs about life with a trouble child from a horrible background. Moments of sadness with moments of happiness.
5 I found it hard to put down. I was horrified at the total lack of information and support from foster care agency they were given with this disturbed young girl and are so thankful things have changed since Cathy Glass first fostered this child. The commitment and dedication for months are to be applauded when their lives were so negatively affected for weeks on end through lack of sleep and worry, especially with a new baby. Not enough credit is given to foster carers for the work they do. The courage and resilience of the young girl as she eventually stabilises and engages fully in her recovery with caring support is heart warming. The true hero of the book. I loved the updates at end of book. It touches on coping mechanisms which the young girl engaged in which outwardly were very confronting for her carers but educational for readers in the way portrayed and explained. Another story of how adults can unbelievably perpetrate immeasurable abuse and damage on a child but that child with love and support can sometimes overcome some of the terrible damage.
3 Really liked at beginning, but without giving away story line, the ignorance of the adults in the story became annoying and  unbelievable. Found myself majorly skipping chunks of story 2/3rds of the way through.
4 While this is truly a sad account of an abused child, it is also an inspiring story of love and loyalty to a broken child by foster parents.  There are a number of editing issues but the story being told is important enough to overlook them.
4 The author recalls her first experience as a foster parent, taking care of 13-year-old Dawn. At first impression a shy and lovely adolescent, Dawn quickly presents as deeply troubled. Cathy and her husband John are startled awake, night after night, as a sleepwalking Dawn comes into their bedroom after the baby. A habitual truant from school, Dawn prefers to spend long hours with unnamed older friends in unnamed places, often staying away from home for days at a time before casually strolling back.Worst of all, Cathy learns that Dawn is a cutter, having countless scars in various stages of healing over her body.Despite her best intentions, Cathy soon learns that caring about someone just plain isn't enough. The depth of Dawn's problems may be such that only a professional facility can make a qualified attempt at saving this young girl's future.Glass' narrative style is both informative and intriguing, yet at no point is she overly sentimental or pitying. Readers will enjoy finding out how Glass' first foster charge came into her life, and how she turned out.
4 This was a good read. The first Cathy Glass  book i read. I just started a second one since this was so good.
5 I was moved by Dawns story, I truly believe she was sent to Cathy and John which saved her life. I was move to tears many times esp when Cathy helped an saw her thru trying to kill herself , I cried even more when they had to say goodbye.. I was pleased and touched to read about Dawn calling Cathy and happy to read she was happy , going to college to be teacher and so very proud that Daw was able to move on with her life and over come all that horrible things she had gone thru . God bless you Dawn ,God bless Cathy and John for saving another child.....
5 Interesting reading about a subject I knew very little about.  The system failed here to disclose what was happening to this girl to her foster family.
5 Cathy Glass always writes books that I enjoy. Her description of fostering and the impact it has on both the carers and the fostered child is meaningful and accurate in my opinion. This story of Dawn and her struggles and her & success in growing into a responsible adult is inspiring.
4 I ahve a neice who had been doing some cutting on her arms. She has  had  help and is not doing it now. Still it is a worry. This book shows me ther is always hope.
2 Why write something to encourage others to be Foster Parents that pointed how bad the system to help kids is or was at that time. Why would I ever want to go through this.
2 Privacy and legal concerns made it difficult to reveal motives, to develop characters, or to give enough details about the child's life, other than when she was directly with the foster parents. I realize that's real life in fostering, but not so helpful in understanding abuse, parental rejection and irresponsibility. This was only a single snapshot of time in this child's life, with little before or after. The foster mother was syrupy  sweet. Much of the book centered on the couple's natural child.
4 I for one am angry at the way Ruth handled Dawn's case. I think that Cathy had been the most important part of looking in to Dawn's past to.I think it is wonderful how understand Dawn's mother was .
5 This has been one of the best books that I have ever read. I would recommend this book to every one
5 What a shame that this child felt so alone and had to take such drastic measures to receive the help she mostly desperately needed.
5 This book gave an honest perspective of what might cause a young person to do harm (cause pain) to themselves.
5 It was a shame that there wasn't more counseling available for this lonely little girl, I only hope she was able to escape her demons at some point in her life.
2 After all of the rave reviews, I expected to be blown away by this book. Unfortunately, this just didn't happen. I agree completely with another reviewer who said the author went into too much detail. While I never thought you could have too much detail in a book, this book was overrun with instance upon instance of the author telling you every minute, insignificant move she made within every hour's time. None of it had anything to do with the story. It was tedious and annoying. There was little to no action. I kept waiting for something of interest to happen, but it never did. It felt as if there was a gaping hole in the story, as absolutely nothing was revealed until the very end, and even then it seemed in a rushed, uneventful manner, almost as an afterthought. I found the ending to be quite dissatisfying as well. It felt incomplete. I just wasn't impressed.
5 This book was riveting for me.  I love books by Cathy Glass, and look forward to new ones.  It held my interest from the first page to the last.
5 This book made me both exasperated with Dawn's social worker and amazed at Cathy's strength. It was also suspenseful in the fact that we knew Dawn was deeply troubled but not why! Great book!
5 Another one worth reading by Cathy Glass.  I think maybe the whole foster system just intrigues me.  Easy read but worth it.
5 It's hard to imagine fostering a child that has so many problems,but this story proves that they are good people out there willing to give their hearts fully to foster children.  Great story and a great read.  Couldn't put it down.
5 This book show how some kids deal with pain and what is going on in their lifes. But thanks to people like the Author who wrote this book that are willing to help these kids got back on the right track.
5 Sad but true account of one child's misfortune of the life they were born to......We need to become aware of these problems of our society so we can 'fix' them, meaning the problems that create these poor children not the children themselves.
3 I enjoyed reading this book.  Cathy is warm and inviting.  It is a very encouraging and inspiring story.  The only complaint I have was that it dragged a bit in the middle.
4 This book is a well written story about a teenage foster child. Although it was different from what I expected, not giving as much detail as I would have liked to read about WHY the child had problems, and I am very interested in the &#34;why&#34; of mental issues, the author did not know all of the child's history. But there is some resolution to the &#34;why&#34; questions near the end of the book. Overall, I found it very inspiring reading how well these foster parents were able to handle a difficult situation and how their love most likely saved the life of this child.
5 This book was amazing! Once I started reading it I couldn't stop! It just goes to show you there is hope out there for everyone!
4 This is the story of a foster child in England more than twenty years ago. The young girl was given to the foster parents without much of any background information, which makes their struggles even more difficult. But through it all, the foster parents never give up. Ultimately, it does all work out, but what I found most interesting, was the way England's medical care happens.  If Obama care goes through, we too could find necessary care being delayed for two months too.
5 Very touching story. I definitely suggest it. I read this because it was in the kindle daily deals but it was much better then I thought it would be.
5 This is a great story which chronicles Cathys start in foster care. It's great to see how she got started and here the success story of Dawn.
4 The title caught my attention as I had tutored a young lady in High School who was a &#34;cutter&#34;.  I wanted to understand why she did it and she didn't want to talk about it.  Now I understand.  It's a heart breaker and Ms. Glass is probably the kindest, most tolerant, nieve person I've ever come across.  Her patience is commendable.
5 The courage of the foster parents is beyond comprehensible.  I doubt that we would have the courage to see her through her ordeal without any help from the existing system.
5 Another great true story by Cathy Glass, awesome FOSTER care giver in the UK. Can't wait for her next one out Sept 2013, next month. Ms. Glass you are a amazing lady!
5 i enjoyed this book even though it broke my heart at the same time as a mom i can't imagine how someone does this to a child
5 As much as I hate child mistreatment I am always so happy when things turn out good. Thank you fir a touching story.
5 This is all very new to me, but again, Kathy came through with another amazing eye opener.  I have two adopted grandchildren so can relate what could happen although in our case it didn't as they were rescued at birth.
4 This book is very sad, but unfortunately is a harsh reality in the world. A teenager who is neglected and abused finds a little hope in a family who fostered her, and shows her love.
5 This book was amazing and remarkable!!! Pulls at the heart!! Truly inspirational!! I am a fan of Cathy glass!! Awesome
4 Great book and worth the read! For the most part it kept me very intrigued! Looking forward to the next one!
1 I am sorry, but I just don't believe Cathy Glasses stories.They seem to be a combination of Dave Pelzer, and Torey Hayden's book.Too many simulations.
5 A very touching story. Thank you Cathy Glass for all you do for these poor children. You are an angel.
5 This book w a s wonderful but very sad and depressing at times. I still could not believe some things that dawn did but overall very good book!! :)
5 I chose this 5-star rating because Cathy and I relate in the language she uses. If I had written her books, this is the way I would sound. I enjoy the way she puts you right there with her in the experience. I look forward to reading more of her books; this is only the second one I've read so far. (the first one I read was entitled &#34;Damaged&#34; and it was even better than &#34;Cut&#34;).
2 I just bought this book along with 6 others and can't rate it until I read it in a few days
5 I wanted to read this book because it mirrors my own life in a way.  Before I was diagnosed with Bi-Polar,  I was always depressed and didn't know why. I am a cutter too, as it does releive my anxiety and sadness.  Medicine and Therapy is Great now.  I just wish there was more information and therapists out there to help with this mental illness.
5 I loved this book. It kept me turning pages right through to the end. My hat's off to the author and her wisdom and love in caring for this child.
5 I love Cathy Glass's books. As a teacher, they give me insight, and help cue me in as to what to watch out for. If you can stand to read about the heartbreaking circumstances these kids are in, they are amazing books.
3 This book gives an accurate account of the messed up systems put in place to help children in need. Although it is set in England the flaws in the foster system seem to mirror those in most places. The characters are realistic. The book shows the difficulties of being a foster parent as well as the positive feelings that come from trying to help others. There are quite a few British terms but they don't hinder comprehension, in fact they add to the characterization. There are also a few typos in the kindle version.
4 I enjoyed the story. Knowing it was a real story I really wanted to know how she is doing now.
5 Very heartfelt, I can only be inspired by the thought that a little love and caring can turn a life around.  Thanks to individuals like John and Cathy who were able to take a seriously scary and dangerous situation  and use good old common sense to help this child!
3 I think this book could have delved deeper into the subject matter.  It was difficult to ascertain whether the author was trying to make the point of the horrific and dangerous acts of self abuse some children and adults participate in due to childhood trauma or more about foster-parenting.and the trials, tribulations and so much joy that comes from foster-parenting.
4 True account.  Love the reality... goes to show how perseverance is the key to a child's success in life.  She was lucky to come across such caring carers.
4 I have so much respect for anyone who could open their home to foster children in need.  This is a wonderful story about a very troubled child.  It was hard to read sometimes and I doubt I could have been as patient and postive as Cathy and John.  But, it was wonderful to hear Dawn's story and I would definitely recommend this book.
5 This is the second of Cathy's books I've read.  Both were touching and inspiring.  I plan to read all of Cathy's offerings.  I certainly recommend them to others.
4 Very sad but a good look at how unfortunate some of these children are and who's out there to protect them.
5 I am a big fan of cathy glass and this book is no different . I recommend for anyone who enjoys this genre .
3 The book was free and I needed something to read. it kept my interest, but wasn't the most exciting thing I've ever read.
5 This book is just a glimpse of how kind hearted people can be. A traumatized young girl that was loved deeply by her foster parents. This book changed my whole perspective on fostering.
3 Its was okay. Not as dramatic as others.  A lot of kids have similar stories, the book was good though.
5 Very good book..Great understanding of what some children deal with. We never know why children turn out the way they do
5 This story is very moving and makes me so very grateful for those who have hearts of Angels. Sad, moving and very inspirational. Thank you Cathy Glass.
5 The book was an easy read, but powerful.  I did not want to put it down, and had a difficult time letting it go in order to get to sleep.
5 Cut tells the story of Dawn, one of Cathy Glass' first children she fostered. Dawn seemed to be almost too good; indeed it turned out she was  a truant, a drinker, carouser and cutter. She had a forgotten past in which she was abused and was involved in some horrifying escapades. Cathy and her then-spouse felt their way through the process of caring for this girl whilst protecting their infant son from her attentions. I enjoyed the book and was sad to hear Cathy and John had parted ways.
3 This true story covers a very pertinent topic; a topic which is no w receiving much coverage in the American press  finding that the story actually occurred over twenty years ago and in England left me wondering, actually hoping, that the British system for meeting the needs of abused children has been more strongly developed.  The story was well written, although I had hoped for more details- which would not have divulged any confidentiality.  I also wondered why the carers did not go to the pub and retrieve the foster child when she was late returning home. The name of the pub was mentioned several times when the police brought the child home to the carers.  I would recommend this book for those interested in the subject matter, those dealing with a self abuser, or those entering the fields of social work, psychology or education.
4 I wish Cathy Glass had never written a book about fostering children.  Not because of her writing ability-I enjoy her books immensely.  I wish there was never a need for her to be a foster parent, that all children lived happy lives with loving parents.  Unfortunately, there are many children that need people like Cathy to care for them and show them love.Once again, Cathy Glass has written a book that I can't put down.  Her writing leaves me feeling like I have shared her experiences.  In this book, Cathy tells the story her first foster child, a young girl who cuts herself.  Although Cathy and her husband try, they just can't seem to help Dawn.  But as worried as they are about Dawn, they are even more concerned that she may harm their baby when she begins to sleepwalk.
5 beautiful and warm
5 Its is a very sad book. It has a happy ending. It is based on a true story. Great book. Loved it
5 I was so touched by Cathy's account of Donna 's life,I felt so much love for this young girl who had been so abused on so many levels.God bless Donna and Cathy Glass
4 Cathy Glass has a true and natural gift , for fostering children in need.  Very well written and a inspiring story.
5 enjoyed this book.. enjoy all the books I have read by Cathy Glass.. amazing stories.... cant put any of them down... looking forward to reading more of them....
5 Again, I am completely involved in Cathy's fostering.  She is so ready to help any child at a moments notice.  Every story is so very different and fascinating.  You want to find out how each child will respond to her calm, caring nurturing.
4 It is very interesting, and I wished I could have read it straight through. I need 6 more words now.
5 This is a story of a 10 year old girl called Donna, she was taken from her mums care along with her 2 brother and placed into foster care,They were all placed together but Donna had to be moved and she ended up with Cathy and her ChildrenWhen unpacking all Donna stuff Cathy comes across a bag of rags, which Cathy found out one morning was used to wash the floor, plus she would scrub her hands clean as she says to get the dirty of as she has duel heritageDonna had contact 3 times a week, and her mum would not talk to her if she did it was not nice thing,Donna also hit Paula Cathy own child and as all carers find hard when it there own family that get hurt you are all ways watching the child that did it,Donna use to come home from contact and would destroy her room plus she would tear up paper and put it all round her room as when she was at home she had to clean all the time,I am glad the Donna got the love and care from a real family and that she has now grown up into a lovely young lady
5 I loved this book.I was glad when Donna started talking and became happier.She had lived with horrendous abuse.It had a very happy ending for Donna.
5 Cathy Glass, a highly gifted foster-carer, is given voice through the E Book scheme, and rightfully so.  She has many wonderful and unique stories to tell from her career of caring for more than 100 children.  This is one of them--a powerful, demanding account that details frustrations and emotions experienced so as to actualize the readers appreciation for the unique demands each child brings.  Told almost in diary form and a mother's perspective, this book is a compelling read.  This book is a love story and love defeats all.I recommend this for anyone interested in children, the unique challenges encountered with these little beings, and anyone who enjoys a good love story.
5 Great personal wisdom of a loving mother willing to share with young needy children.  Will open your eyes to love.
5 Another heart felt story in the world of adoption and the child in the system. Also a great view of the foster care worker.
4 This is a true story of a child that was brought up as the scapegoat for a very dysfunctional family.  The child's logic that results from this type of upbringing is so flawed that very strange behaviors are exhibited.  With some assistance, this girl's innate wisdom finally brings her beyondher cruel upbringing and allows her freedom to live a happy life.
5 I loved this book.  I was sad at the amount of torment that this child went through, but her lovely spirit continued to shine through.  A read for anyone that has dealt with childhood trauma.
3 this book was fairly interesting, but unrealistic when the child was taken from the foster home she was doing so well in.  This foster mother had accomplished more with this girl than anyone else had been able to do.  I think a big chance was taken when she was removed to a different home.  Fortunately the girl continued to do well and kept in touch with the foster mom who did so much for her.
3 A sad but true storey.  It's hard to believe any Mother could treat their child this way. Thank goodness for people like Cathy Glass
5 I really liked this book. It is sad to see how some children get abused by their parents. The social worker sure had a hard time trying to steer this little girls life into the right directions.
5 I have read one of Glass'es books, Damaged and felt not only touched and thankful there are such excellent people out there with this talent but also educated. So I wanted to continue reading Cathy Glass's books. This one did not dissapoint.I love how her books read close to what a diary log of family happenings rather then totally emotional outpooring.  I find it easier to relate to the damaged children and marvel at the ability of people who can figure out a child's drama like piecing together a jigsaw puzzle. It is intriging and totally satisfactory in the end. I also enjoy the fact she doesn't pull any punches in regards to what happens to each child. Not all children are able to rebuild their lives after abuse.I am more understanding of the social dilema of workers in this arena and how each child can impact our society by producing more damaged people if not helped. Therefore I have gained more of a world view that this is occuring everywhere. It isn't a pretty picture but it has made me more aware. And for that I am thankful. perhaps Cathy's books would be good reads for older high school students for more understanding and possibly for volunteering to do more social work.When you read her books, you will be touched.
5 Story of a 10 year old who puts up with years of abuse at the hands of her mother and siblings.
4 Cathy Glass is one of those authors, who's books, I always look forward to reading. She is one of those special people who has an incredible heart and it makes you wish everyone in the world could be touched by her. The Saddest Girl in the World is another great book she has written. She is caring for a little girl named Donna. Once again, Cathy's patience and love as a foster carer help Donna through her issues from the horrible abuse she suffered from her Mother and siblings. Cathy's books are hard to read, some of the things these children go through are horrific but what she does for them is so worth the read!
5 Althought I don't think the picture of the little girl on the cover &#34;looks&#34; like the kiddo in the story, it was a wonderful, easy read.  I've since read several of the author's other books as I enjoy her style of writing. While the topic is very sad, it is encouraging to read about people who truly care about kids.
5 This book was so very sad. I had to watch my emotions so I did not take it out on my family. Hard to believe kids are really treated this way.
5 Another hit by Cathy Glass !!!!I like all her other books I have read highly recommend this one. She is an amazing carer and wonderful story teller. I would love to meet her!!!
4 I already reviewed this book and submitted it from my Kindle Fire.  Did you not receive it? Am I doing something wrong?  You usually acknowledge receiving my reviews and didn't this time.
4 Another gripping story from this amazing author it is emotional and heartbreaking and I could not put this book down.
5 Great book.Really enjoyed reading it.I finished the book in three days.Cathy glass is a great author.I really enjoy her books
5 Better get out tissues because this story is extremely sad & inspirational. The story was descriptive and moved along at a good pace. Never wanted to put it down & love the updates after the update. The villains, the biological mom and sister, are just so unbelievably mean, cruel, and messed up.
4 It's hard to imagine the kinds of horrific circumstances some children are born into. And yet, these kinds of &#34;homes&#34; are sadly more common than we think. Powerless to help themselves, the young victims must often wait until a shrewd teacher or other adult notices something amiss, and contacts the authorities in a position to make a change.That's precisely what happened to 10-year-old Donna, and her younger brothers Jason and Warren. Once removed from an extremely filthy and neglectful home by child protective services, the adults involved slowly began to glimpse more and more horrific details of the almost unfathomable levels of abuse suffered by the children, especially Donna. For reasons that Cathy Glass, Donna's foster carer and author of this story, could not understand, young Donna took the brunt of the abuse - even from the 6- and 7-year-old brothers, who were instructed by their mother to help beat their sister.But as always, Glass - a foster parent for over two decades - put her all into attempting to help improve Donna's life. With her loving yet no-nonsense attitude, Glass used her usual approach of trying to integrate Donna into a normal child's life while also encouraging her to speak about what had happened to her in the past in the hopes of Donna's beginning to heal emotionally.Despite the serious and potentially depressing subject matter, readers should not be scared off from taking on Donna's story! Glass's unique style manages to tell the details while in no way dramatizing or focusing upon the negative - although, of course, if anyone in this world has a right to ask &#34;why me?&#34; it would certainly be a child like Donna. Instead, Glass never stops hoping, both for Donna to heal and find peace, and even that Donna's family will be able to do the same.
4 This book was not that well written but go better as I went along. I praise the foster mom who helped heal this poor child but wanted to shoot the horrible mother who kept having kids she abused
5 With all Donna had been thru its amazing to hear of her great success story .. Thank God for all the ppl in her life that helped her thru such a horrible time with much love and patients. I still cry reading Cathys books and always cry happy tears when they have to say goodbyes and live with their forever families. Well Done Donna , and many thanks to all care givers that work so hard to help so many children in need. God bless you all.
4 Highly recommend...can't wait to read another!  Heart warming and shows such a compassionate side of a foster carers life! Enjoyed!
3 This book was ok.  Pretty slow at the beginning.  Usually I find that extra time really develops the main character(s), but it didn't for me in this book.Donna's story is a very sad one.I don't regret reading it, but I just feel the story could have been more dynamic.
5 Cathy Glass always holds your attention! Though I have read Donna's story many times, her triumphs keep me interested every time I decide to revisit.
4 I chose to read this book because I knew nothing about what it means to be a foster parent or a foster child.  Even though this story took place in England, I'm sure it mirrors the relationships in the United States.  I learned things about the expectations and regulations set upon foster parents that I did not realize.  And, my perceptions of how mistreated a child can be were confirmed.  I think people should read this book, or I suppose any of Cathy Glass's books if they want to learn more about the subject.  It held my interest but sometimes I felt that what Ms. Glass was going through was too much to ask of anyone, especially a mother of two of her own children.  I admire the woman.
5 This book was sad but it ended well.  I am very happy for the young girl in this story.  I hope that she continues to overcome any obstacle she may come across.
4 Plot/Storyline: 5 StarsThis book told an incredibly sad story of a young girl who was taken into foster care along with her two younger brothers. Although it was heart-wrenching, it was also uplifting to know that there are people out there willing to help kids in such a situation.I was impressed with the way Ms. Glass told the story. She did not appear to be trying to embellish it using shock tactics. Instead, she told the story as it happened, only shocking the reader when she was shocked at the time with the child's incredible tales of abuse.Although Ms. Glass did mention when others gave her compliments for her work with "Donna", she never appeared to be bragging about herself. She simply did the work of a mother for a girl whose mother was extremely unfit.I cried a couple of times during this read. The treatment of Donna by her mother was simply appalling. However, I also laughed a few times when the author told of humorous portions of the tale. Ms. Glass certainly has maintained her sense of humor through the atrocities she must hear of in her work.Character Development: 4 3/4 StarsAlthough Ms. Glass certainly had no way of knowing the inner workings of Donna's mind and emotions, in her telling of Donna's story, she made me  feel as though I knew Donna. She also threw in enough information about her own children to have me engrossed in their interactions with Donna. I did think that more about Ms. Glass and her children could have been revealed to give a more full story. I would have been interested to have more insight into the children's thoughts and feelings.While Ms. Glass revealed much of herself in respect to Donna, she did not tell of her feelings outside of that.Writing Style: 4 1/2 StarsThe writing style had a smooth, easy flow. At times, I did have to pause and think about certain phrases as the book is set in England. There were some verb tense issues here and there, also, some of which was just due to the "foreign language" &lt;wink>, but at other points, it just seemed like the verb tense was inappropriate.Rating: PG-15 for Sever Child Abuse and Graphic Adult Language
3 Easy reading and held my interest but not particularly intriguing or unique.  I thouht it was ok.  I would pick another one of her books if I wanted some real light easy reading.
5 Cathy Glass is very good at writing books she has help so many children and she has to let it out I am not sure if I could go through what she has done. but she has also helped a lot of kid too.
4 As a CASA (court appointed special advocate) I like to read these stories to have a better insight of what the kids have to go through to be taken away from their parents.This story of total rejection by a mother to her daughter is very sad.  At 10 years old when a girl needs her mother, all she ever experienced was that she was not enough in any sense to be loved.  It is well written and it made me want to get to the end, hoping that somebody will build that child up again and fill her with love.
3 To say that I enjoyed this book would not be appropriate given it's subject matter.  It was thought provoking and informative. It was like reading clinical notes in a medical file, succinct, specific and factual. The writing is objective and true to the primary purpose of this book - to highlight the sad and tragic tale of this young girl.I appreciated learning more about the tireless efforts of both social workers and foster carers to ensure the safety of those children, who through no fault of their own, have been abused and neglected.Good work.
4 Cathy Glass is a foster parent in Britain. I really liked Tory Hayden's books about her experiences as a teacher of emotionally disturbed children. This was great to see how these children are treated in another country. It was a very good read. I love the way the British use language. It was fun to notice the differences in American and British English. I really felt for this lovely and troubled child. It was nice that Cathy included an epilogue so we could see how this child had grown. I'm very glad to have found this new author. I will look for more by her.
5 The story is very sad must it is a must read,  You will travel to the world of an abuse child and an uncaring mother.  Child abuse should not continue in this day and time, but after reading this book I did reacher and what I found was shocking
4 There is hope for children who have been abused and love does matter.  Cathy Glass is an inspirational author! I look forward to her other books.
5 Another winner from Cathy Glass. I have come from an abusive childhood and would highly recommend this book to any one else who has. I find her books very healing.
3 It was a good read.  This book ended on a positive note.  I'm glad Donna found some happiness.  She was lucky to find Cathy
5 Fantastic ending..  I loved this story.glad it turned out great for her in the end. What a horrible life she lived. And to think this was real... It's sickening, but I loved it
5 Cathy puts it clear, she tells what the kids go through and gives great ideas on how to deal with the issues they have. Should be required reading for all foster parents
4 This book is such a warm story of a woman who gives so much to the children she fosters all the while raising her own children.  It is often painful to read but this particular story has a happy ending after a rocky life.
3 Sad story. Makes you think about all we have good in our lives.  Thank goodness for people like Cathy. Nice to know she is doing good now.
5 Cathy Glass is an excellent writer. When you begin one of her books itshard to put it down. She has opened my eyes to the plight of these children.
5 I love all cathy's book they always seem so true to the heart and moving! as well as eye openers
5 I cannot imagine how a Mom or her siblings could treat her as they did.  I felt pain and sorrow for the life she lived.  Thank heaven for social workers who really care about their clients
5 I enjoyed this book  as one of my favourite of Cathy Glass' publications because it takes place around her busy household and shows the interaction of her own children with Donna. Donna was taken into care due to a very wretched life where her mother actually seemed to hate her and encouraged her siblings to beat her, mock her and make her miserable, plus she had to do all the housework and was given little food. Donna at first seemed passive, mute and so sad, but a violence soon emerged against Cathy's children and she also took to trashing her room. The story does tell the success of this child due to a kind and competent foster family and a successful adoptive mother. The job of foster caring is indeed a difficult one and I love Cathy's stories about the children she has looked after. I don't know why so many children in the Western world are treated  so shabbily by their bio parents.
5 I usually don't read autobiographies written by someone who is younger than me, but a tennis buddy gave me this to read.  A remarkable career filled with life's ups and downs...made me laugh and made me tear up. 3-2012
5 This might be the best sports biography I have ever read.  While I'm not a big tennis fan (or Agassi fan for that matter), I was deeply impressed by his honesty.  Most impressive to me is that he was forthcoming not only about using  meth, but also about how he lied and convinced tennis authorities that he only inadvertently took the drug.  He never had to disclose this information, as the public never would have known.  Based on my read of this book, Agassi is actually the antithesis of the "image is everything" guy that he appeared to be in the nineties.  Through his honesty and impressive philanthropy, it is quite obvious to me that he is a man of great substance.  I would highly recommend this book.
5 Probably my favorite autobiography so far.  I'm not a tennis fan, or (previously) a fan of Agassi's.  I read the book at Malcolm Gladwell's (unexpected) recommendation, and it's a beauty.  Everything's told in compelling, story format, so there's no long, dry narrative of different parts of Agassi's life and history.  Characters are developed, and narrative conveyed, through entertaining, often poignant, vignettes, and yet the book still holds together so well as a narrative that you really get a feeling that you know his story and upbringing and anything you may want to know about him and the people in his life.Very, very well done, touching, very human, makes you really root for him, in his tennis matches and in his life.
4 I have never played tennis. The first tennis match I watched on tv happened to be Agassi's final match. So years later, when this novel was released, I had to read it. I became an avid tennis watcher after seeing his final match, and this book has made me an even bigger fan. So interesting to hear about tennis matches from an actual tennis player.
5 Agassi hide nothing. Very direct and to the point. What he did after his career is very inspiring ! a must read
5 This is a powerful and wonderful work. Finally a sports figure who sometimes irritated me with the PR bombast early on in his career, burst thorough the door, with TRUTH about his life. Just a breath of fresh air. The words just spoke to me...there was no need for me to read between the lines and figure out anything...straight up no chaser.I have a new found respect for Andre as a human being and a great talent. Compared to Sampras, S. Williams, Alex Rodriguez, Manny Rameriez,and others who thought they had something to say, Mr. Agassi crushes them all with TRUTH...I was moved by his prose, which was sometimes raw BUT truth just the same. A true treasure of a book!! An intimate look into motivation and choices that human beings make, and/or pushed into even when they are young children.If you are not into tennis, don't fret for the message applies to many human dilemmas we experience in life. Sincere thanks Andre for all you do for others too, especially the youth!!!!
4 This is one of the best sports books I have ever read -- mainly because it's not primarily about sports. Agassi, as everyone surely remembers, was one of the best tennis players of his generation -- a teen idol with flowing locks who later matured into a veteran warrior on the court. But, as he tells us on page one and many times subsequently, Agassi hates tennis. It was never his life's choice. An overbearing, abusive father chose it for him and turned him, by sheer force of his own will, into a star.Agassi's portrait of his father is honest and unsparing. He seems to be in mourning for a lost childhood, a lost youth. One could argue that tennis gave Agassi enormous gifts -- it made him wealthy beyond most peoples' dreams and turned him into a much-loved figure. But for many years it also left him empty inside, not knowing who he was and what he wanted -- a mere tennis-playing automaton.This book also contains one of the best portraits of a loveless marriage I have read recently. Agassi drifted into marriage with actress Brooke Shields, herself the victim of a domineering parent, because the world seemed to expect it of him. There was an emptiness at the heart of their relationship and it ended with barely a whimper.Agassi is excellent at describing the physical demands of being a top-ranked athlete. His descriptions of matches are notable for their depiction of pain.Finally he finds happiness with Steffi Graf -- another whose life was molded by a determined father living vicariously through the achievements of his child. Agassi provides a hilarious description of the meeting between his father and Graf's father with each vying to be more outrageous. The book ends with a lovely scene where Agassi and his wife go to a local court in Las Vegas and hit the ball around for the sheer fun of it.
5 Loved the book, it taught me that to win in life, you have to loose a lot! Very well written!
5 For Tennis and non-Tennis Fans!!OPEN is captivating from the first page.  The writing is incredibly crisp and emotive.  A book you cannot put down.
3 I liked the book, however I didn't like how he talked about his first wife Brooke Shields and I thought that the tennis detail got a bit much ... But then there wasn't a lot else going on in his life, so once I worked my way though that I came out of this autobiography with a new appreciation of a very tough life.
5 I loved the kindle edition of this book. It discusses both the value and pitfalls of competition. Andre allowed us to see inside his soul.  He explained the reasons behinnd many of his actions, both professional and personal.
5 After reading the press on this book, I didn't have much interest in reading it.  I was shocked that Andre admitted to drug use and also that he hated tennis.  It also sounded like he really hacked on his father.  The reviews did not do the book justice.  It is candid, funny and heartwarming.  I'd always wondered what drove Andre's philanthropy and now I understand.  In a world of get rich quick athletes, he is one of the few (both he and Stephanie) to use wealth to make the world a better.  Great read!  One caution, if you are not a tennis fan, you will not enjoy the storyline as much since there is a great deal of discussion about match strategies, etc.
5 Best sports autobiography I've evre read. Even if you are not an avid tennis fan just a sports fan this is most definatly worth a read
5 Honest and revealing look into the life of a tennis champion. I real feel as if I know Andre after reading this book. I would love to meet him someday. I loved finding out the inside details of life on tour and what it takes to succeed. I used to think that it had to be the most fun and glamorous life on the planet. Great book
5 I don't play tennis so I didn't understand much of the action with the tennis matches. I still rather enjoyed this autobiography by Andre Agassi. I like that he didn't always win and chronicling the rivalry between he and Pete Sampra was really fun to read. I think that he is a great writer. I really loved his analogies and similes. I wonder why he even married Brooke Shield. I am going to watch that hand-licking scene in &#34;Friends&#34; again!
5 I'm speechless.  Fourth best book I've ever read. It's amazing this man pushed through life.  Shadow Lands is one of my favorite movies too.
5 I watched Agassi play from the beginning and enjoyed the show. No other player held my attention and now I think  I understand what I was watching, and I am re living and confirming my impressions of this man's heart.  Thank you Andre
5 Even if I wasn't an avid tennis player and fan, I would still have enjoyed this funny, insightful, often painful, and extremely well-written book  by  the always compelling, complex, and entertaining Agassi! Excellent story, with so many quotable passages, that my highlighter couldn't keep up!
5 This is the first autobiography of a world athlete that I read and I am not disappointed at all. I have to say I give a lot of credit to J.R. Moehringer, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist,  who helped shape the book. Agassi gave credit to Moehringer himself in the Afterward. All that said Agassi's personality shines through the letters. He's very, very open about his personal life in all aspects. The reader get to see and 'feel' all the behind the scene of his life. In some way the reading was almost like a fiction. The book definitely helps you get to know Agassi (and like him) better. The tone is sincere and open..just like the title of the book! If you're going to read only a few autobiographies of top tennis players, I highly recommend this to be one among those few. The book got to me so much that I continued on to read Sampras's autobiography, A Champion's Mind.
5 The name of the this book is 'Open: An Autobiography,' but for some reason Amazon has another page posted here under this slightly altered title.  I'll post a review here as well, but to see a fuller discussion of Andre Agassi's awesome book, go toOpen: An Autobiography (Vintage).On the day after I finished this 'brutally honest' book, I encountered the following passage from Robert Harris' The Ghost: A Novel. With some substitutions, it perfectly describes what makes 'Open' so compelling:-----------"Why don't we try to make this book unlike any other [sports] memoir that's ever been written? Why don't we try to tell the truth?"He laughed. "Now that would be a first.""I mean it. Let's tell people what it really feels like to be [Andre Agassi]. Not just the [sports] stuff -- any old bore can write about that. Let's stick to what no one except you knows - the day-to-day experience of actually [being the top-ranked tennis player in the world]. What do you feel like in the mornings? What are the strains? What's it like to be so cut off from ordinary life? What's it like to be hated?""Thanks a lot.""What fascinates people isn't [sports] -- who cares about [sports]? What fascinates people is always people -- the detail of another person's life. But because the detail is naturally all so familiar to YOU, you can't sort out what it is the reader wants to know. It has to be drawn out of you. That's why you need [JR Moehringer]. This shouldn't be a book for [sports junkies]. This should be book for everyone."------------That's this book. Even if you've never read a sports biography, read this book. Even if you don't care about tennis, read this book. Even if you think you didn't care about Andre Agassi, read this book.Andre Agassi looks at his life through collaborator JR Moehringer's Pulitzer Prize-winning lens and emerges with one of the finest memoirs on record.
5 Wow! You can tell why literature/poetry was his favorite class in school. While it is no literary masterpiece- it is one of the most engaging books I have read. I am not a tennis fan, I've never even seen a full Agassi match- and only picked up the book because it was on the best seller list and because of the raving reviews... and I was not disappointed- in fact I couldn't put it down!It reads like am engrossing novel made even better by the fact that it is real. His candor, style, and narration is unbelaievable. I really hope that he will write more books- perhaps being a writer is the career he had been looking for!
3 I started reading this the beginning of 2013 and am not done yet. Agassi is one of my favorite tennis players and his life was very structured and his father very strict. I am about 2/3 through it.
2 Reading this book has cemented in me the fact that probably all sports heroes and probably all so-called celebrities are afflicted with Narcissism, which is an unhealthy, sometimes fatal, focus on oneself and the fact that the world revovles around him or her.I think I have finally learned that when a book about or by a celebrity is published, the so-called good parts are all over the news in stories, reviews, etc. prior to publication.  Therefore, I have to stop buying books such as these since I already know what they are going to say.Andre Agassi had a mean, stinking father.  Lots of people do.  A lot of them seem to grow up to become celebrities.  He hates his father, but loves him.  He hates tennis, but loves it.  He seemingly hates Brooke Shields, but also loves her and is heart-broken when she leaves him.Andre Agassi cries a lot.  He has tantrums.  Lots of them.  He hates tennis but won't quit. He loses at tennis.  He wins at tennis.  And there you have the book.  In my opinion he is suffering from a very bad, nearly fatal, case of arrested development and he comes across as so needy it is hard to feel sorry for him; his great needs can't be met because he doesn't know what they are.  (Poor Stefanie.) I feel like he has used this book to purge himself and has gotten his debris all over the reader.  What are we to do with it, other than take a shower and move on?I will say that his Foundation and School appear to be excellent and to have pulled him out of himself in a considerable way and that is good. I wish him the best and I personally don't plan on reading anything else about him.  Ever.
4 Great hero that comes from being and underdog. All the inside stories of all the great matches that made you a tennis fan. Great legacy and it is worth reading it.
4 A friend first recommended this book to me almost a year ago, saying that she saw much of Agassi's perfectionism in me and that I would identify with his passion for education. The first half to two thirds of this book were incredibly hard going. It took me nearly two weeks to get through them. Then the last portion, I read in a day. The book begins with Agassi's difficult and unenviable childhood. His reflections are bitter and I kept thinking he should be telling this on a psychiatrist's couch not in the pages of an autobiography. The writing is clever, initially it's almost too clever. It doesn't ring true to his claims of a disdain for education, and it isn't spelled out until the acknowledgements at the end why this is the case. I found the literary devices and writing style initially irritating, but the rhythm changes and his voice mellows and becomes more authentic about half way through, and it becomes a much easier read. It was a joy to relieve the highlights of his tennis career, and it certainly evoked many happy memories of playing tennis and following both his career and that of his wife's (my favourite tennis player of all time - even more than Martina Navratilova!). His dedication to education is heartening. The later portions of the book provided both tear-jerking and laugh-out-loud moments that redeemed this book from the initial torment. I was surprised that he pulls no punches in descriptions of family, friends or tennis peers - though I probably shouldn't have been. His honesty is both disarming and quite charming. Definitely worth persevering through the initial stages.
4 This is a pretty good book, except for the parts that make you want to stick a finger down your throat. The opening chapter is a description of the second-to-last match of Agassi's pro-career. It's a five-set nail-biter, and it grabs your attention and holds on to it! The next few chapters detail Agassi's early childhood under the tutelage of his dictatorial father and self-serving tennis coaches. Again, very interesting. The middle part of the book drags on a bit. Agassi goes through standard adolescent angst and melodrama, except that he seems particularly childish. Everybody's a bit childish in their late teens, but I think a lousy childhood + fame + money + being 20-something years old = chapters of sappy self-important drivel.One interesting thing to note is that this book was written by a ghost writer. It was very well written, and I'm sure that the writer worked very closely with Agassi. But I have to wonder whether the final product is strictly genuine. At first blush, it appears to be; Agassi admits to many faults and describes his failures as easily as his successes. But on at least a few occasions, I feel that the author (Agassi and/or the ghost writer) pulls some punches. For example, one of Agassi's worst moments was in participating in an advertising campaign with the slogan "Image is Everything". In this book, he explains that he had no idea how such a slogan might be interpreted, or that it might reflect badly upon him. (Even though at the time, he already had a bit of a playboy image). It's a bit hard to believe he was quite so nave. He also tends to whitewash his culpability in the failure of his first marriage to Brooke Shields. Finally, some of the motivations for his behaviors are attributed with such melodramatic certainty to his lousy childhood, that they start to ring a little false. Sometimes immature behavior is just immature behavior.Fortunately, the book improves again. The last chapters focus on his resurgence into the game of tennis and his marriage to Steffi Graf. It never gets as fun or as exciting as the beginning of the book, but it's not bad. The book is worth a read - particularly for tennis fans.
5 If you need an upper, read this book. First you'll see that money & worldly success do not buy happiness, in case you were wondering. You'll also learn that love & true friendship are the only things that really matter in this life. Behaving honorably and helping others while we're here can make us happy, but only if we decide to be. It's our choice. I've learned that and it wasn't easy for me, either. I'm a lifelong tennis fan, and a huge Andre & Steffi fan, so approached this with mild curiosity. Blew me away from the first page. What a writer Andre is, I hope he writes more books, I'll be eagerly awaiting their release!
5 The book reveals the life of a tennis icon, a life of struggle, hate-love relationships, physical challenges, abusive relationships and the strength that overcomes all of them. Beautifully written is a testimony of a life well lived and of a strong character that never dies. Shocking beautiful!! A must read!!!Aura Imbarus, author of "Out of the Transylvania Night."Out of the Transylvania Night
4 This book was a surprisingly enjoyable book. Although I am not a big tennis buff, I have enjoyed watching Agassi on the courts. He brought a lot of life to the game. After seeing him on television I decided to buy the book and I couldn't put it down. I must admit I did skip over some of the tennis matches because there are so many. And I did feel that he said a few too many times how much he hated the game...I got it after a few mentions. That said, the human emotions in the book blew me away. Agassi bared his sole and while I always thought of him as an outgoing star, I took the inner journey with him and understood how much he suffered along the way. The contrast between his relationship with Brooke Shields and Steffi Graft was very interesting. And the way he talks about Steffine touched my heart. What woman doesn't want to hear a man say those words about her? All in all, this is a very good read. I hated to see it end, but my admiration for Agassi and his foundation have moved to a whole different level. Anyone who struggles with life will learn, grow and be helped by reading this book.
5 Most tennis lovers thought they knew Agassi. His works prove that we knew nothing at all! This was one of the most powerful insights to a person's life that I have read. He told the true, raw story of what it was like growing up as a child and becoming a tennis player. All the times we thought he was a spoiled brat or high on his own ego maybe we didn't know him at all. Please read about his life and how he changed it around.
5 Very good book. Interesting and simple writing makes it a joy to read. If you like reading biographies, read this.
4 I really enjoyed reading this book..it was filled with great anecdotes and a lot of personal reflections on the game, family, and most of all, the drive that keeps us all reaching for our goals. I'm not really familiar with the game of tennis so I got lost in some of the individual match descriptions, but I did enjoy how he analyzed his game and how he talks about hating the game, but he never gives up.I wish he discussed in greater length his personal battle with meth.If you love tennis, definitely read this book. If you enjoy sports, read this as well. It's a great story of a man who made something of himself, despite his shortcomings and flaws.
5 I do not have enough superlatives in my vocabulary to adequately describe this book.  Just looking at the dust jacket tells you that this memoir is aptly named.  On the front cover, Andre meets your gaze directly with eyes that tell you that he is vulnerable and wanting to hold nothing back.  The photo on the back shows a sad little boy keeping his eye on the ball, perfecting his backhand but hating and fearing the sport into which his father drafted him.  In the 388 pages in between, Andre bares his soul.  It's all there--the drug and alcohol abuse, the wear and tear on his body, his lack of a high school education, his victories and defeats, the lie that he concocted when he tested positive for crystal meth, the story of his hair falling out, on and on, related with almost perfect recall.  Andre was much more candid than you would expect a celebrity to be, if perhaps a little too hard on himself.  I only sensed that he held back in talking about his romantic life, not wanting to dish out the dirt on Brooke Shields and describing his current wife Steffi Graf in nothing but glowing terms.  But you can hardly fault him for that, right?  (No pun intended.)  Andre's story "ends" well, although at age 36 in this book he is still far from his final chapter.  He is happily married, with the proverbial boy and girl to raise, retired from tennis, and founder of an educational foundation for underprivileged children that funds a school in his name.  And not until the very end do we find out that Andre paired his eidetic memory with the elegant wordsmithing of a supremely talented ghostwriter, J.R. Moehringer.  He begins the book with a phrase that could just as easily conclude it:  "I open my eyes and don't know where I am or who I am."  While Andre's identity crisis is very real and perhaps the dominant theme of Open, by the book's conclusion the reader senses that he is well on his way to finding out and this gives me hope that he has at least one more book in him for us to look forward to.  Game, set , and match--Agassi.
5 I was riveted by the first chapter.... (I could almost feel the shots going back and forth from his description) I was disturbed by the second chapter, and almost put the book down.  I'm glad that I didn't.  It's a very interesting book.... puts the reader into his head in very candid ways, and give what feels like first person insight into "celebrity".Enjoy!
5 I am not usually a big fan of memoirs. If a person interstes me and they have written one, I will read it but was never overly impressed, until now that is. I have never been a tennis fan or someone who has followed the sport yet Andre Agassi is as much a part of my twenties and thirties as anyone or anything I can remember. He literally dominated headlines for so long. Until reading his story, I never knew a single thing about him other than what an amazing athlete he is though plagued by the media's reportings.I have to say that he is literally one of the most amazing role models I can think of. He literally transcends his sport and truly offers a deep and meaningful look into what it means to be a professional athlete. In fact, his book could easily be offered as a valuable teaching tool in any applied sport psychology course. His brilliancy on the tennis court is also extended to his prose. Perhaps what makes this story so over-the-top good is his raw honestly and obvious humanitarianism. This is the one memoir I have read where the reader gets a real sense of the person it's about along with all his struggles and triumphs. He is one hell of a writer with a fluency and rhythm that is hard to come by. The book practically reads itself.OK, enough gushing. Just go out and read this book. It's terrific!!!
5 I'm not a fan of Andre Agassi. I never rooted for him on the court. I always regarded him as a bit of a drama queen professionally and in terms of his life. That being said, I heard that this was an excellent autobiography...and it was. I had a very hard time putting this book down. Open is an amazing story and Mr. Agassi's is a fine writer. The pages turn effortlessly. The story he tells is compelling and fascinating. A man who reached the top of a profession he hated. His relationship with his father--and his depiction of the man--was wonderful. I'm very pleased that he took the time to document his memories and highly recommend this book.
5 I am not at all a tennis fan and have never followed the sport so I have no idea why I decided to read this book but by chance I downloaded in onto my kindle and absolutely couldn't put it down after reading the first page. I have read it in the doctors office, at lunch, dinner and in taxies not wanting to put it down for even a moment and loathing comming to the end. I am an avid reader reading usually a book a day and i have to say this is absolutely one of, if not  the best books of any kind that I have ever read. Well done Mr. Agassi...I have become your fan after you have retired.Beverly Jean KawabeFukuoka, Japan
5 I always suspected Andre Agassi was an amazing person, but this book proves it.  It's a fast read,  I just couldn't put it down, and it is filled with honesty, wisdom and humility.  There are lots of tennis stories with reminisces of matches, so if you're not into that, you may not like it.  This is a beautifully written auto-biography that gives insight into one of the premier athletes of our time. Don't miss it!
4 The love story with him and Steffi is, to me, the best part of the book; it literally got me teared up at one point.  I also like the relationship with him and his trainer, Gil.  I liked his raw approach talking about himself and his life and family.Suprisingly, the part I was least impressed by was his school. It almost ruined the whole book for me.  I admire the guy for doing something good, and helping kids...I just don't get the authoritative approach he takes with kids--forcing them to wear uniforms, and making them recite a speech every day that emphasizes 'respect for authority'...whatever, Andre.  How about teaching kids to question authority and think for themselves?  I'm not a fan of forcing kids to wear uniforms and emphasizing respect for authority.  Those are pretty dangerous values to emphasize, if you ask me.  I don't want to start citing groups in history that emphasize authority and uniforms, but...you know what I'm sayin'?As a teacher of 10 years...and as a kid who was taken advantage of in horrible ways by adults who insisted I 'respect authority', I don't get his ideas...he seems to want to pass on some of the rigid control that his horrible father had on him.I guess Andre didn't learn much from his own childhood.  That's too bad.
4 This is an autobiography of an American tennis star. The sad story behind it all is now he was force into playing tennis my a father that only one thing and that was for his son to become the number one in the world, so his son lost his childhood and had to play a game he could not stand. Yet today he is retired but now enjoys tennis, but he and his wife will not have a tennis court in their backyard or force their children into such a life as their respective fathers did to them. Pretty good reading.
5 I can not tolerate most biographies for many understandable reasons, and because of this I only got this book because I had a gift card.  However, I loved this book.  I am a sports nut, but I really dislike the lifestyle of the highly paid athletes of our time.  Andre capitulated exactly why I love sports and hate the lifestyle of the athletes.  Yet while doing this he endeared me to him.  He was brutally honest with his previous and current lifestyle, and continually sounded repentant for the lifestyle that he did live.  I really admire that about him.  Since I finished the book I have watched some tennis documentaries about him and can see his transformation and maturation occur during the years.  Isn't that what our life is about regardless of how well we can hit a tennis ball?  We are here to mature and progress.Mr. Agassi is a very good writer too. I am sure he has his editors to thank for a lot of it, but you can tell the book was his words. Very intelligent man.One thing that I was wishing to see in the book was the exact moment when he realized he was playing for himself and not just because he had to.  I guess that was the point though.  His realization of why he played tennis was as elusive as the grand slams in his early years.Would I reccomend this to a friend.  Yes, and I already have to a number of friends.
5 I lost a few nights sleep reading Open because I simply couldn't put it down.  It is very entertaining and a seemingly very honest portrayal of Andre's life so far.  Before purchasing and reading I read a review saying it was one of the greatest sports books of all time and I agree.  I also read that Andre's memory is amazing particularly in the detail of matches he remembers and that it may be a very minuscule flaw in the book, and I caught myself skimming a few games, but otherwise it was great to read about a real person who happens to be a true champion.
5 OPEN by Andre Agassi is probably the best tennisbook I have ever read . . . though considering the factthat I haven't read too many other tennis books (maybejust one other), that's not saying much . . . so I'll amendthat statement to say that it was one of the bestsports books I have ever read.It's a gripping account of the tennis star's life thathad me hooked from the very first page . . . there'ssome dirt in it, of course; e.g., about his use ofcrystal meth that cost him his No. 1 ranking . . . yetsome of the stuff that's revealed is actually funny,such as his account of the problems with the wighe wore to hide his premature baldness.I was also surprised to learn how his father workedhim so hard as a youngster:* My father says that if I hit 2,500 balls each day, I'll hit 17,500balls each week, and at the end of one year I'll have hit nearlyone million balls. He believes in math. Numbers, he says, don't lie.A child who hits one million balls each year will be unbeatable.Yet, by far, OPEN most came alive when Agassi described inamazing detail how he thought about actually playing the sport(he actually hated most of his life):* I'm winning more often. I should be happy. Instead I'muptight, because it's over. I've enjoyed a triumphant hard-courtseason, my body wants to keep playing on hard courts, but clayseason is starting. The sudden switch from one surface to anotherchanges everything. Clay is a different game, thus your game mustbecome different, and so must your body. Instead of sprintingfrom side to side, stopping short and starting, you must slide and leanand dance. Familiar muscles now play supporting roles, dormant musclesdominate. It's painful enough, under the best of circumstances, that Idon't  know who I am. To suddenly become a different person, a clayperson, adds another degree of frustration and anxiety.And the vivid accounts of his battles with such tennis greatsas Jimmy Connor's, Pete Sampras and Roger Federer had mefeeling almost as if I was on the court, right beside him . . . forexample, there was this description of a match he had with Xavier Malissefrom Belgium:* He moves admirably well and has slingshot of an arm. He featuresa meaty forehand and an acing serve, but he's not consistent. Also, hisbackhand is mediocre: it looks as if it should be great because he'sso comfortable hitting it, but he's more interested in the way it looksthan actually executing it. He simply cannot hit a backhand up the line,and if you can't do that, you can't beat me. I control the court too well. Ifyou can't hit a backhand up the line, I'll dictate every point. An opponenthas to move me, stretch me off the mark, put me in a position where I'mdealing with him, or else he'll have to play on my terms. And my termsare harsh. Especially as I get older.The book concludes with an account of what did happen to Agassi ashe grew older and eventually retired from competitive tennis . . . I wastouched how he has turned to philanthropy, and I was also gladdenedto read of the happiness he has found with his second wife (Stefanie Graf).
4 Lovely book, I enjoyed reading it and as usual I think readers who can identify with parts of the story will really appreciate it. Agassi's portrayal of his tennis career and his rigid controlling father was great. I loved how he didn't shy away from his rage, confusion and ambivalence when it comes to tennis and his attempt to create an identity. "I hate tennis" he said over and over to anyone who asked, I found that funny and poignant.My only dislike was the last hundred or so pages of the book, I think he fell a bit flat. I couldn't really make out his relationship with Steffi Graf. And in general while I found him to be very open with regards to his relationship with tennis he seemed to fade away and become hidden when it came to his relationships with certain people in the book.
5 This book was fantastic - I wasn't overly keen about having to read it for our bookclub - but once into the first 2 pages I couldn't put it down...I like mens tennis & I liked Andre when he played - but this book was so much more ! It was really interesting and gives a great insight into the lives of celebrities / sporting greats. His philanthropic work is awesome & a credit to him & his tumultuous career. I really recommend it.
5 I recently attended an event at which an author spoke about his latest project, a biography of an athlete who died in a tragic accident. Following his remarks, one member of the audience muttered to his friend, "What's the point of buying the book now? He pretty much told us the whole story." That sentiment would initially seem to apply to Andre Agassi's autobiography, OPEN. The book has received so much attention, and Agassi has made so many appearances, that one feels there's nothing left to learn.Of course, that's not true. One has only heard the most salacious points: that the former #1 ranked player hated tennis from the very beginning; that he wasn't too fond of his first wife, Brooke Shields; that he was losing his hair, which became an issue during some of his matches; and that he used crystal meth. But there's a lot more to Agassi's progress from prodigy to being a pro's pro. He achingly describes his childhood under the thumb of a dictatorial father for whom tennis was the be-all, end-all of their existence --- even at the expense of education.Agassi's eventual climb to the highest level of his sport is similarly rendered in fine detail, although perhaps too much so for the casual fan. He seems to spend more time discussing his failures than his victories both on and off the court. His courtship and marriage to Shields is rather depressing, and it's as if he was drawn into the situation with no mind of his own. They were close together in proximity, but miles apart emotionally. On the other hand, the accounts of his wooing long-time dream girl and fellow tennis star Steffi Graf go to the other end of the spectrum. Good for him (Andre, happy at last). And good for him that he was able to surround himself with a cadre of loyal friends and support staff; in fact, those relationships seem almost too good to be true.Despite having all this going for him, OPEN comes across from time to time as a bit of a "whine-fest." Agassi educates his readers on just how physically demanding tennis can be, as well as how lonely: boxing without the gloves is one description he offers. Not to mention the numerous occasions when he points out how often he thought about just walking away from a career that brought him fame and fortune: "I want [tennis] to end. I don't want it to end" and similar phrases are repeated throughout the book. On the one hand, you might wonder how anyone with such a glamorous lifestyle could complain, but on the other, it's just that type of honesty --- as well as the manner in which it is presented --- that makes it difficult to close OPEN.While his name does not appear on the cover, J.R. Moehringer, author of THE TENDER BAR, is the real storyteller here, turning Agassi's memories into compelling prose. Much has been said about the style --- present tense, intimate detail (although not the kind some readers might prefer) --- but it bears repeating. And Agassi, to his credit, has lauded Moehringer's work during his many interviews.Despite the occasional eye-rolling copy, it's easy to see why OPEN has been hailed as one of the best sports memoirs/autobiographies ever written.--- Reviewed by Ron Kaplan
5 I've read the recent memoirs by Pete Sampras, Monica Seles, John McEnroe, Boris Becker and others. Agassi's is by far the most refreshing in its candor. And let's mention the unique present-tense style used to make the book read effortlessly. For anyone who wondered what made Andre tick, this will answer every question, and he now seems finally understandable, after his career is over. He was a thinker, which is always difficult for an athlete. He explains everything here, including his much publicized drug use, hate for tennis, divorce from Brooke Shields and early fashion faux-pas, as well as why he made the ill-advised move to advertise a slogan, "Image is Everything," which dogged him in his earlier days. Lendle's quip, "a haircut and a forehand," is put into context. Andre's farewell speech was one of sport's most moving. His new autobiography is that, as well. Read this if you are a tennis fan. You need to know what's inside this fabulous memoir.
4 From the unretouched cover photo to the raw examination of his life in the glamorous world of professional tennis, Andre Agassi creates an unvarnished self-portrait.  In this book, we see how his early days - being pressured to perform by his boxer father - set the stage for both later triumphs and tragedies.  Agassi spares no details about his drug abuse and other self-destructive behaviors that kept him from fully realizing his potential in the sport of tennis.Selected as one of the 20 top new sports books.  See: [...].
4 A brutally frank biography that is easy to enjoy even if you don't follow the game. What's astounding is how long Agassi played, while actually hating the sport. And if you ever saw any of the matches he played it gives you amazing insight into what was actually going through his head half the time.
5 Mr. Agassi spent half the book complaining about how excruciating the sarcasm and criticism of his game was.  This is a little peculiar considering that he wore a wig for a long stretch during his career, sometimes in combination with a Mohawk, put on make-up, wore an earring and his signature stonewashed denim shorts half the time, called UNLV'S Running Rebels "my kinda mascot", and did all of this without winning a grand slam or playing in the Wimbledon for eons.  It didn't hurt that these shenanigans helped his endorsement income, and image which he also complained wasn't everything.What's also peculiar is how someone with an 8th grade education can write a book such as this.  No mention of a ghost writer anywhere until the Acknowledgements section of the book when he describes his collaboration with Pulitzer Prize winner, J.R. Moehringer.  It was at the behest of Mr. Moehringer that he excluded him from a reference on the cover as is customary.Open is a candid and quite intriguing autobiography of not just a tennis great, but a great human being who has done so much for so many in need through his college preparatory academy and various charities.  A great read even for those with a mild interest in tennis.
5 Right from the first page when Andre Agassi describes the scary dragon tennis ball machine his father constructed for him, you'll be hooked. It must of took tremendous guts for Agassi to reveal pretty much all that is in this book. On the one hand he reiterates that he "hates" tennis but on the other he has enough willpower to keep playing despite the physical and mental tools especially when he falls so far off the computer rankings and ends up on the Challenger (think minor leagues of the tennis tour) circuit to try to claw his way back up the rankings.I enjoyed learning about his off-the-court crew and his two high-profile romances (with ex-wife Brooke Shields and current wife Steffi Graf). Be prepared to learn a lot of the inner turmoil and triumph on those scores.Mainly, though, it's a great book to learn about how the tennis tours (both men and women's) operate. I had to laugh at his coach Brad Gilbert and Bud Ice being his beer of choice. Given he was a former pro and traveled the world, this is the beer he appreciates the most? I love Gilbert, especially now as a tennis commentator on TV, but that and Agassi's love of fast food seem to sum up the "uncultured" aspect of tennis at the ground level. It really is a sport, although international in nature, is one of the hard working classes...and, boy, did Agassi work at it.The book will blow your socks off especially about characters like Nick Bolliteri who runs a famous Florida tennis school ("prison" according to Agassi) or the tipping habits of Pete Sampras. There's much more both good and bad on players such as Tarango, Baghdatis, Becker, Rafter, etc.The weird thing that comes out is Agassi's love of Davis Cup and his wanting to be part of a team you have to wonder why he never gave doubles also a shot like, say, the Aussies of the past who played both singles and doubles. I would have thought, despite the modern tour schedule, he'd have enjoyed his life on tour much better if only he dabbled with doubles a bit.
4 a good read, an expose of what can be right and wrong in the competitive tennis world.  we have seen him play tennis, know hiswife and his parents, and the Bradenton area.
5 A wonderful, revealing book.  I couldn't stop reading it.  I thought I knew all about Andre.  I was an older--40s--novice male just starting out playing tennis regularly when that whole generation came on the scene.  I loved all the American players--Pete, Courier, Chang, and most of all Andre.  I wasn't even going to buy this book.  But I work overseas and I needed to take some books along on my Kindel so I bought it along with several others.  Was I surprised to learn the things that Andre revealed.  I personally don't care about the drug issues as long as he didn't use them in a match.  But the relationships with his father and others is surprising.  Who would have guessed the extent of the abuse he experienced and the hate he had for the game until late in his career.
5 I became interested in listening to "Open" since I saw Andre's interview on Larry King. Just loved the way he talked about his wife, Stephanie. He has quite a history starting from his childhood, years as a professional tennis player and finally as a husband, father, and businessman. I enjoyed this audio CD so much I would drive distances just to listen. Glad to pass on a great life story to my friends.
5 Agassi's extraordinary life recounted by him self. Intriguing as thriller, poetic, profound and all...for real! The beauty of this book is that it will "OPEN"  (pun intended!) our hearts  to others and teach us that sharing is the greatest and most durable satisfaction that any sensitive human-being can find in life.  Maybe the most beautiful book I have ever read. Thank you Andre, you belong to the greatest of the earth. Hope to meet you in person one day. Carlo, Thailand.
5 good a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a glad you had it  fun
5 What a great insight to his life. We would have never known what kind of life he had without his honesty.
4 I was surprised that I enjoyed this book  Agassi has written an engaging and at time, moving account of his life. I had trouble putting the book down.
5 Most autobiographies, especially sports autobiographies, are just a chronological series of events with insight into each event. It's usually not new insight and is mostly just filled with platitudes and cliches that the author already gave in press conferences. There are always a few interesting tidbits in each of these autobiographies, and reading a bullet point summary of those tidbits in an online review is just as good as reading the actual book.Agassi's autobiography is more like a novel. You read it and think it would make a phenomenal movie, the way it starts at the very end and then flashbacks to the beginning. You can't just read about the revelations in some online review and think you've gotten everything out of this book. This is a book that needs to be read front to back. It's superbly written -- not by Agassi himself, as he never had the education to pull that off, but he did spend thousands of hours on it and as a longtime fan I know that this is his authentic voice. In a recent interview, Andre expanded on why he and Pete Sampras were opposites by saying that when they saw each other in October 2009, Andre realized that Sampras had also just released an autobiography and tried to start a conversation by mentioning how he was so glad how his turned out, and how many thousands of hours of sweat and tears he put into it. He said that Sampras just looked at him like he was crazy. Sampras felt that an autobiography was just an encyclopedic sort of thing, not a cathartic baring of the soul. When you compare their books, it shows.Another thing that separates this book is Agassi's remarkable memory. Agassi has always been known as one of the best analysts of the sport, and has always astounded the press with his point-by-point recollection of matches that had taken place decades before. After I play a recreational tennis match, I can barely remember the points I just played. You could ask Agassi about a point he played in 1988 and he'd be able to tell you what was going through his head, how fast the serve came at him, the sequence of shots, what someone in the crowd shouted out, what the temperature was, the humidity, the wind speed. He mentions in the book how he seems to notice the most trivial things, and once he notices them they forever stay in his mind. I'm sure if his memory was somehow measured, it would be found to be in the very upper tier in the populace. This combined with his deep, empathetic ability to notice and understand human behavior creates a truly astounding read. It is rare to find an athlete as intelligent as Agassi, and if his father hadn't been so anti-education, I believe he could have had a brilliant academic career and flourished in some intellectual field. Perhaps psychology. Sports psychology would have been an easy fit, certainly!You don't have to be a tennis fan to enjoy this book, although you will certainly get a little bit more out of it. Similarly, a sports fan will be able to get more of it than someone who doesn't care much for any sport. However, there is not a person out there who could not gain something from reading this book. This is not simply a tennis story, or a sports story. This is a human story.In regards to the crystal meth revelation, I will say this in his defense:1. Testing positive for a recreational drug (crystal meth is a recreational, performance inhibiting drug, NOT a performance enhancer) in 1997, the year that he started and stopped taking the drug, had the penalty of a 3 month suspension. 3 months. That's like a nice little vacation to get rested and refreshed for the rest of the season.2. In 1997, Agassi won nothing. He was losing in the first round of every tournament. He was playing challenger events, the minor leagues of tennis, and even losing in those. It is true that he won a few matches, and he did have a surprising run at the US Open when everyone thought he was going to quit tennis any minute. This was not fair to the players he beat - he should have been suspended at the time. However, when you really think about it, it just speaks to his talent that at his absolute lowest, when he was quite literally disabled physically, when he went out in front of that New York crowd and felt the magic and realized that he wanted to win, he was still able to muster up the game to beat world class players. At the end of the day, the only person hurt by his drug use was himself. Andre has said in recent interviews that he would happily have 1997 thrown out of his career. Have all of his results from that year blacked out. It makes absolutely no difference to the total number of titles and championships he won.3. For the past decade, Agassi has been the most admirable person to ever come out tennis. What he's given back is remarkable. What he's done for the sport is unmatched. Tennis is an unpopular sport in the United States, but people would always tune in for Agassi, and this book is selling like hot cakes. People love Agassi, and for good reason.This doesn't justify him lying to the ATP, but we need to keep this in perspective. It's important to understand that this doesn't diminish his legacy in the slightest. He is still one of the best tennis players of all time -- and as you'll see in this book, he may have achieved twice as much if he hadn't stumbled and fallen and beaten himself for so much of his life. He hated tennis, he admits it. His father, a man who would make Joe Jackson quiver with fear, thrust him into it as a toddler. He makes a strong argument for why it is the loneliest sport in the world, the sport most likely to produce insanity in its players. On the other hand, look at what it gave him. He loved holding up trophies and gold medals. He would never have met Stefanie without it. There was a duality to his life that I'm sure we can all relate to in some way.
5 Great book about the tennis great.  Open, honest and pleasurable to read.  Learned a lot about the man and the tennis player.
5 I am a tennis player and I enjoy reading almost everything related to tennis; but even if I weren't, I would have enjoyed this book.  It is honest and heartfelt, well-written, funny and sad.  It was one of those books that I looked forward to having the time to pick up and hated to finish.
5 This is a great read and provides a lot of interesting insight into Andre Agassi's life and his tennis career. If you like tennis, even if you are not an Agassi fan specifically, you'll enjoy this. It focuses on his development as a child, his struggles with the limelight, his hatred for tennis, and most significantly, the importance of the various people in Agassi's life that made his success possible. At times, the tennis feels almost like an afterthought, but not in a bad way. It is a book about a person and the people in his life, not a book about tennis.
5 I don't know a thing about tennis and yet I could not put this book down!  One of THE BEST memoir's I have ever read!
5 This book will throw you for a loop.  I had no idea how this guy felt about the sport he dominated.  This is a good look into the life of a legend.
5 I am not a huge fan of tennis.  Probably like a lot of Americans, my interest has waned since all the American stars retired.  Even in the Sampras/Agassi heyday, I would only watch the finals of the slams. I admit, I always pulled for Agassi, Sampras was just so darned borning, which might be why I found "Open" fascinating.  This was by far the best sports related autobiography I have read.  By the books end, I felt like I truly knew this troubled, insecure, yet often inspiring talent.It must have been very difficult for someone as famous as Agassi to admit some of the things he has done; yet it was probably cathartic; you can almost feel a sense of relief as he opens up.  I think no less of him for his faults, it makes him more human.  Agassi used the book for a couple light jabs at some of his contemporaries, but he never threw anyone under the bus...except himself.There is a fair amount of detail of some of his matches, but I enjoyed it because I don't remember who won so it was quite suspenseful at times.  Highly recommended book.
5 Gosh what an amazing athlete and such a strong person.Andre, Thank You for sharing your story of such a different life, the rise and hardships you endured to make it to the top.Revered by all your peers.
4 This is an exceptionally well-written and moving sports autobiography.  Agassi confesses that he always has had trouble articulating his thoughts -- so obviously a ghost writer was hard at work here.  But he manages to tap into Agassi's soul, to Agassi's credit.The best part of the book is Agassi's ability to convey his loneliness and agony in growing up with an out-of-control tennis father and at a bizarre tennis boarding school in Florida.  Also gripping is Agassi's description of the critical mental aspect of the game -- the mind battle that goes on between the players, the importance of conditioning, and the surprising importance of good mental health in going into a tough match.  Agassi loses a number of matches because of his mental fragility, and his triumphs seem all the more heroic given his struggle with his inner demons. You can't help but like the man after reading his book -- because he puts it all out there for you.  Not many celebrities could ever bring themselves to be so honest and introspective.Agassi's description of his love life, in addition to suffering from TMI, seems a bit less sincere and a bit self-serving.  I don't think he treats Brooke Shields fairly -- she comes off as terrribly shallow.  And Agassi also does a hatchet job on his great rival Pete Sampras, who is portrayed as one dimensional and cheap.  This detracts from the book.  And while Agassi's description of his friends and mentors is at times quite compelling, his occasional tendency to view his friends as "wing men" is not becoming.But Agassi's struggle with his hatred for tennis on the one hand, and his pride of craft and desire to win on the other hand, makes for a great story.  Also, Agassi's ability to explain and embrace his contradictions -- culminating in his life's work of founding a charter school after neglecting his own education -- is very moving.I do not watch much tennis, but I did always like Agassi and like him a lot more after reading his book.  A gripping and surprisingly moving book.
5 I found this book riveting and a real page-turner. I've always been a fan of Andre Agassi.  When I heard Agassi dissed tennis in his book, I was hesitant to read it.  I didn't want my idolized view of Agassi ruined.  A friend insisted I give it a shot and I'm glad she did.  It is one of the most enjoyable books I've read this year.Agassi grew up in my generation. He refers to common things from my generation. What's more,I'm a tennis player (ok, hacker) so you would figure I would love this book. I have to tell you,though, even if I were none of the above, I would still love this book because Agassi's message is universal.  Agassi shares his crazy, tennis pro life and how he managed to reach out to forces and people in his life who help him develop into a whole person - a person who knows himself, what he wants, how to love, and how to find happiness.  For Agassi, happiness is giving back - to his family, his friends, and his organizations.  For gosh-darn sake, aren't we all looking for personal happiness and struggle to pinpoint it?What is more, the book is super-interesting and, I suspect (because really, how would we ever really know?), honest.  The background stories are all there, too - Streisand, Brooke Shields, Sampras, Conners, McEnroe, Steffi Graff - but here's the amazing thing, other than a few juicy tidbits, Agassi is the consummate gentleman - there is no kiss and tell.  There are clearly things about some of the folks he mentions that the reader can construe and I'd be happy to get in an email conversation about anyone who would care to discuss them, but I dare not mention them here as the Agassi book deserves to be read cover to cover.In the end, Agassi explains, through his tome, the truth behind his "hate tennis" comments.  Does he really hate tennis?  Maybe.  Has he come to terms what tennis has done for his life mission, I think so.  And what the heck is wrong with that? Nothing, if you ask me.  All of our lives are filled with the good and bad things that happen to us.  To mention an old cliche, each one of us is the sum of our experiences.  Why would a tennis player be any different? For Agassi, though, he overcomes and he reaches his potential.  Tennis champion may be the least of his potential as a man.
4 For people passionate about tennis amd borned in the early 70 this is an unmissable book. As a bonus you get to know Andre and even if you didn't root for him back when he played (I certainly didn't) you really get to like him through his honest and yet gripping story of his life and career.
4 Agassi is very candid and a surprisingly  excellent writer. I wish him every sucess during this next phase of his expansive  life. Perhaps he can finally resolve his love/hate relationships with tennis and with his father. I know that he is adding a lot of love and good will into the world. Agassi as an artist, has an artist's creativity and an artist's insecurities and angst. His is a very interesting story about a boy who was pushed/forced to do what he did'nt want to do,became very good at it, fought it every step of the way,  and finally came out at the other end, doing a great deal of good to countless children who can now express themselves as he could not.
5 The title of the review says it all.  Everything else has already been said in previous reviews.  Buy this book and don't look back.
5 I have never followed tennis, but even so I was not able to put this down. The account of his life as a child is incredible. As a professional photographer who for years hated photography (even though people told me that couldn't be true), I can totally relate to his turmoil. His love for Stefanie and his kids is beyond heartwarming.
5 Man, I wish every book was as "readable" as this one.  There is no mystery why this book has been a best-seller.I'm not even a fan of Andre Agassi, but he certainly wrote a fantastically-entertaining autobiography here. Right from the opening chapter, this was a great read, the kind you hate to put down.  However, it did make me really look forward to continuing it the next day.Kudos to Agassi for his honesty, even when he has to know some segments of his life make him look pretty immature.  I really appreciated his frank comments on every subject and the fact the recognized good, loyal friends he has had in his life.
4 The book was a nice trip down memory lane of the heyday of American men's tennis. It was interesting to hear Agassi's take on things and see how he developed.
5 Following his tennis career over the years and watching him grow into the person he is today has been an experience.  Reading such an honest and insightful autobiography about his life makes me realize what a champion he is in all areas.  At times his story is heart-wrenching and I give him all the credit in the world for finding such a beautiful way to express his innermost thoughts and experiences.  This book grabbed me from the moment I started reading it.  Whether you were an Agassi fan or not this is one life worth reading about.
5 I thoroughly enjoyed reading Open. Being a tennis fan and recreational player, I put down the book I had already started to read it. I remember Andre more in his later years and hadn't realized what an up and down career he had and how many injuries he played with. I remember clearly his farewell speech. That speech and his writing showed what a huge heart he has. His story made me wish only the best for him and his family in the future.
5 I loved this autobiography.  I followed Andre Agassi years ago and was looking forward to learning about his rise to success.  I wasn't prepared for what I read about his childhood. What a riveting story.  I don't think anyone truly understands what these professional players go through.  I could even feel his aches and pains from the game. For a young man, he has quite a story to tell. There are some comments about other players I found quite interesting if not enlightening. His ex-wife Brooke is also mentioned.  This is an insightful, well-written book.  There are some lessons to be learned here even if you are not a tennis fan.  I have a new appreciation for Agassi and the world of tennis.
5 From everything I could tell, this was probably the most honest and least self-aggrandizing exercise in autobiography I've ever encountered. The more lurid revelations and surprises inside Open are surely well-known by now, so I'll skip mention of them and just say that what is unexpectedly contained within these pages is as much the story of one man's evolution as it is a revealing look into the career of one of the more famous players in the modern era of the sport of tennis. I liked reading this book and I'm glad I bought it.
4 Let me say upfront - I'm not a big tennis fan. Sure, I've watched a few matches on TV, and was aware of the Agassi/Sampras rivalry growing up - but I wouldn't consider myself a fan. I was, therefore, surprised at just how much I enjoyed reading "Open".I had heard all of the hype around the release of this book. I saw Agassi making his round of the talk shows, but I never really listened in to what was being discussed. If you asked me what I knew about Agassi I would have told you this - he used to have long hair, he promoted Canon's Rebel cameras, he was once married to Brooke Shields, and now he's bald. That was it. I had, at best, a passing Pop Culture relationship with Agassi. I had heard good things about the book though, so I decided to download the first chapter for my Kindle. From the first sentence, I was hooked.I have a new respect for Agassi after reading this book. To be sure - he made more than his fair share of mistakes - but I got the sense that this book was an honest and open accounting of his life, as he lived it. I enjoyed the symmetry of a boy who dropped out of school to pursue his tennis career, finally finding fulfillment in founding a school to help disadvantaged kids - made possible by the winnings from that stellar tennis career.
4 It was fascinating to me to read about events in his career I had witnessed from the public side.  Dark and sad in places.  Perhaps a little self serving at times - but who can write an autobiography without being self serving?  Should be an interesting read for anybody who's followed US tennis for the last 30+ years.
5 I loved this book.  It&#8217;s one of the best autobiographies I&#8217;ve ever read.  Agassi and J.R. Moehringer did a fantastic job &#8211; the writing is fantastic, along with the pacing and content.  I was a huge Agassi fan when he was playing.  This book takes you through his career, from brash youngster to the wise tennis veteran you can&#8217;t help but love.  I always wondered about his relationship with his trainer Gil, and they tell that story wonderfully.  I also love the story of Andre courting Steffi Graff.  Man, it&#8217;s crazy how Andre and Steffi came together and fit together so well &#8211; very heartwarming.  I highly recommend this book.
5 I enjoyed reading this autobiography. Andre Agassi is, as his title says, open. He does not over-share his personal information which I believe makes it a good read. He clearly has a lot of love and respect for those close to him, and also for his community and fans. He is not without faults, but shares them with humility. I enjoyed his great memory of tennis rivalries and tough matches. He shares the ironies and agonies of being in the public eye as a professional athlete.
5 Hello,I have just finished reading Open by Andre Agassi. What an incredible book. It is fascinated. English is not my first language but I was kidnapped by Andre's story. I love tennis, I practice it every day. What sets this book apart is the beautiful tango between his career as a bottom-top-bottom-top ATP professional and his personal life, which really makes this book as a breathing specie.The way he met his wife is also extremely romantic. And how he closes his book....by talking about his wife....he says that it is a "privilege" for him to be with her.Would not we all love to be able to say that?Phenomenal book, truly inspiring story.Andre, you deserve all good this world can offer!Well done, keep hitting hard on the tennis court though!:-)
4 It was a bummer to learn that Agassi hated tennis all his life.  What a shame to have so much talent and not enjoy your work.  That was surprising.  Also surprising is how funny this book is, which made me want to come back to it every night.  I was disappointed with some of the pettiness in the book, which he should have omitted.  Cannot imagine how his father felt when he read the book.  Disappointed that Agassi did not spend a little more time about the school he founded and its learning techniques; he lives for that school and to help people.  Every episode about the school was a pleasure to read his pleasure in it.
5 I don't watch Tennis, i don't know much about Tennis. But i love sports & some how stumbled on to this page on Amazon and began reading the reviews. I was stunned at how highly regarded this book was and became intrigued. I purchased the audiobook and it collected dust for several weeks, i was not a Tennis fan and was in no rush to read it. Bored one day after the Internet went out in my house i decided to listen to Open: An Autobiography by Andre Agassi, 10 hours later it was 3am & me and my girlfriend were fully engrossed by this book. It was difficult turning it off to get much needed rest. Needless to say we finished it the very next day.All i can say is read it, all the glowing reviews on here are spot on. This is a book that can be enjoyed by anyone, it is a fantastic story. Kinda funny that Andre hated Tennis and now after reading his book there is a new Tennis fan in the world.
4 I enjoyed reading about Andre Agassi's life, his love/hate relationship with both his father and with tennis.  He was and probably still is consumed by the need for success, an achiever of the highest order, but some of his anecdotes I perceived to be a trifle false, laid out for the reader to see him as a kind and forgiving person. Maybe he is but some comments did not have the ring of truth on them.  The writing style can be somewhat irritating and why every modern writer has to use four letter words every sixteenth word is beyond me.  Hence my 4 stars and not 5
3 A revealing and a surprisingly well written memoir. Agassi is painfully honest in his reflections on and off the court. Like the athlete, this book is tennis obsessed. Sadly for Agassi, his father had pre-programmed his second son's destiny. We get a torrid taste of his very warped childhood. Popa Agasi's emotional and physical abuse casts a sensational dark shadow across Agassi's entire life. As he describes his hard fought on-court success, we are treated to a rare, behind-the-scenes glimpse of the international circuit; scandalous slices of the player's private personalities, their coaches, and the relentless press. His writing can be captivating especially while describing the ups and downs of the physical and emotional blood sport that we call tennis. Agasi details, blow by blow, a mind game and an endurance sport; truly mano-a-mano. There are wide streaks of introspection throughout, still this is an action man's book and most of the emotions are found between the lines. Love it for what it is and who he is, a wildly flawed champion. Is there any other kind?A word about my lower rating of a 3. In my personal rating system, a 4 is reserved for exceptional, one of the best books of the year. 3 Stars means I got out of it what I came for, a solid winning effort. I mentioned that it is a well written sports memoir, but it is not beautifully written, there is no turn of phrase that sets your heart pounding. He describes his emotional state(s) in very macho and cumbersome terms, "it was killing me inside," "I vowed revenge." After scratching at the surface of his emotions and motivations Agassi takes his reader into the actionable consequences. His book is very strong in describing and self editing the actionable portions of his life, especially the play by play.
5 One of the best sports books I've read in a long time. Great autobiography and well written. A must read!
5 Not much to say about this book. I couldn't put it down. It has everything the ups and downs of one of the worlds best tennis players, some of the adversities he has been through and still come out on top, is a true testament to the type of person that he is. A must read.
1 I borrowed this book and read as much as I could out of curiosity (and because I used to like him), but it may now hold the record for number of times a book is started and stopped.  Had I not read so many glowing reviews, I would I have stopped after the first put down, but I kept thinking:  it must get better - all those great reviews!Well - it didn't.  This load of crap didn't amount to more than a bunch of whining by a spoiled, petulant (his own words) temperamental little baby who is so narcissitic he actually thinks his readers will like him and cut him some slack based on the 'horrible' childhood he had.  But a few redeeming moments are followed by more of the same whining - and poorly written whining at that.  He couldn't even get a ghost writer to make it tolerable.I can't really say any more, other than to question how much bribing it took to get anyone to say anything nice about this dribble.
4 This is not your typical sports autobiography, and sports biographies are always entertaining, in fact most of the time we buy them and read them for their entertainment value: much like watching a classic action movie where you can predict every major plot point.Open however, is completely original in this way, a dark adventure into the psyche of demanding professional athletics. Agassi has worked hard, he was not privileged, nor was he particularly gifted or talented when he first started out, but his ambition and drive, along with his unrelenting hatred of tennis fueled him to be the best, unfortunately at sacrifice to all his relationships, his health, and most of his beliefs. It was however, interesting to read about his loyalty to his best friend and the various people he's met in his life. The book is less about tennis and more about what menial tasks mean for our everyday lives, and how they shape who we are.
5 Whether you're a tennis fan or not, sports fan or not, this is a great read!
5 I really loved this book, had me laughing and relating so much to him, wish I knew him, but I feel like I do, the book flies, can't put down, one of the best autobiographies ever. He talks about himself, his ups and downs, his path, his journey,his lows and highs, kinda wish their were more pictures but enjoyed the ones there were, very personal, but very universal, really subtle and well written, definitely recommend and is a six star, but had to give it the highest of 5, you'll love this book, if you like tennis or not!
5 I have followed Andre's career from the beginning.  I've seen the hair, the image, a failed marriage, the style and I, like so many believed that this person the media portrayed was the true man in the mirror.  A tennis great who was in love with the game and lived it as his passion and life's purpose. How wrong I was ... how wrong WE were to believe that.I learned about Andre's book "OPEN" by watching his 60 Minutes interview and was immediately drawn into it.  I couldn't believe that this tennis phenom actually hated the game.  Was it possible?  How could it be possible?  The book takes the reader through Andre's often mentally, emotionally and physically painful process of playing the game of life.  Life for Andre was tennis and playing the game of tennis was most often a hate-hate relationship that brought many painful memories and emotions to light.  He was thrown into the game as a youngster by an over zealous father "Pops" who saw nothing but the game of Tennis as the future for young Andre.  I suppose it's easy to grow to hate something you are forced to do without question ....Early in his career he is believed to be a rebel and yet not a one takes the chance to get to know him.  No one really understands him until he meets his trainers and friends in unexpected ways and can lean on their shoulders.  After a failed marriage to Brooke Shields Andre soon discovers that they live in opposite worlds.  Through these struggles he learns more about himself and does soul searching that brings him to new levels and new lows.The book is about Andre's journey, his mistakes and his redemption.  His life is now just beginning and I feel very excited for him.I read through the book more quickly than I would have liked because it's the kind of book you really don't want to come to an end.  In he end though you learn how altruistic the man behind the racquet really is as he makes a dream come true and shares that dream with others.I was truly inspired and have a completely different outlook on Andre Agassi.  With me, he accomplished his goal of sharing his heart and soul and sharing it beautifully.5 stars Andre -- good stuff and the best of luck to you and your family!
5 AwesomeIt takes about the social life tennis players have and explains what life as a pro is. F u n
5 Andre hired a journalist/writer to help him author the book. WISE CHOICE.The story is amazing and as I was reading it I felt myself becoming one with the 'character'. But that was a real character not a fictional one! I could go to youtube and find the videos of the games and points that he so vividly describes, see how he would hold himself on the court and then read in the book what his true feelings were at these moments..... Amazing.For example having read the book about how much he struggled to win the French Open, going and seeing his reactions on video when he won the match point for his first French Open made me really really sentimental.One of my favourites of all times!
2 Couldn't get myself to finish it.. fell asleep every 2 pages.. seems to be quite monotonous. Expected better from someone as prolific as Agassi.
5 &#34;My theme, I think, will be contradictions...&#34;  Andre Agassi's life story can seemingly be summed up as follows: Son hates Dad.  Dad loves tennis.  Dad forces tennis on son.  Thus, son hates tennis.  But is it really that simple?  Agassi on why he can't quit:  &#34;Not only would my father chase me around the house with my racket, but something in my gut, some deep unseen muscle, won't let me...This gap, this contradiction between what I want to do and what I actually do, feels like the core of my life.&#34;  Agassi most definitely hated his father, and hated having tennis pushed down his throat against his will-and he reserved the right to at least hate it in his heart.  But he was also naturally gifted at tennis-his unseen muscle-and extreme talent is more of a bully than Mike Agassi on a bad day could ever be.  Talented people are always tormented and conflicted; they want to be normal, easy-going, and social.  But their talent demands all their energies, and, if ignored or abandoned, mutates into self-destruction.  It's interesting to note the barely concealed comtempt he has for first wife, lightweight model/actress Brooke Shields.  It's clear he has to force himself to be polite and at least praise her ambition and work ethic.  But with second wife Steffi Graf, it's a case of deep calling unto deep.  Both prodigies with a love/hate relationship to tennis, they understood each other with a minimum of words.  Open is ultimately about growing up, and, in Agassi's case, it took a village of bros to accomplish that.  He was as fussy about his entourage as he was about his tennis bag: he hand-picked his mentors and meticulously arranged their roles in his life.  Gil in particular stands out as Agassi's ultimate surrogate-father, and I loved his advice:  &#34;Gil's philosophy in all things is to seek the pain, woo the pain, recognize that pain is life...Gil says, don't hide from it.  Wallow in it.  We hurt, he says, so let's hurt&#34;  Agassi stresses the total aloneness and loneliness of being a tennis player, and the reader feels this isolation.  There  are no quotation marks used in dialogue, making it seem like a stream-of-consciousness interior commentary:  I owe you, I tell him.  No, he says.  No such things as debts between us.  Another:  Then I say: James, you got my back today?  I got your back, baby.  I got it.  As Agassi's body starts to fall apart, his mind gains clarity.  This book tells it like it is: it sucks to be young.  You're glorious in body, but miserable in spirit.  When you finally let yourself grow up, it's a blessed relief.  I know jack-squat about tennis, but I never felt lost or bored while reading this.  It's full of interesting detail only a professional old-timer would know.  The matches were exciting battles-of-wills; it was like reading about two opposing armies-of-one strategizing and fighting on the battlefield.  Truthfully, this may just be the best autobiography I have ever read.
4 Who would have imagined that a man who has made his life and purpose to play tennis actually hate the sport.  Agassi made his mark on tennis but at a price that took a tool on his body, spirit, and soul.This book is remarkable in that you learn how bad things were inside Agassi's life and the turmoil of being a professional athlete.The book talks about his relationships, the ups and downs of his career and how he finally left the sport.  A book that makes you aware of how you really do not know the inner battles that individuals are facing, no matter the outer appearance.
5 Borrowed the book from the library and was hooked from the very beginning.  Very well written and so heart-felt.  Thank you, Andre Agassi, for writing this book and sharing your stories with us.
5 I really enjoyed reading about Andre and his life of tennis with its ups and downs. I thought it was an honest writing with personal stories but most important was his attitude that kept coming through until he finally realized that what made him the happiest was when he was helping someone else. I believe that is mostly true of all of us. We feel the most important when we make someone else feel good - by helping with things that money can't buy.
5 In Andre Agassi's "Open," the former tennis great bares his soul, recounting his dysfunctional childhood as the son of a taskmaster.  Although Andre claims that he hated tennis with all his heart, he had to "keep playing, keep hitting all morning, and all afternoon," because his father, Mike, left him no choice.  The symbol of Mike Agassi's mania was "the dragon," a ball machine that made unearthly noises and flung balls at over one hundred miles per hour towards his seven-year-old child.  Mike wanted Andre to hit 2,500 balls daily, and would scream at him, "More topspin! Hit harder.  Hit harder.  Not in the net!"  In the Agassi household, "if you're not perfect, you're a loser."  When Andre was in the middle of seventh grade, Mike shipped him off to the Nick Bollettieri Tennis Academy, which Andre hated and called "a glorified prison camp."  Andre paid a huge price for his father's abusive behavior and his mother's failure to intervene.  Although he is extremely intelligent, he did poorly in school and never completed his formal education.  Mike lived vicariously through his young son, and stated unequivocally that someday, Andre would win an Olympic gold medal and be number one in the world.  Mike did not worry about what this exclusive focus on tennis would cost his son in terms of happiness and peace of mind."Open" is a heartrending portrait of the damage that an overbearing and single-minded parent can inflict on a helpless child. As a result of his father's tyrannical behavior, Andre spent years in a sort of stupor, living his life on autopilot.  Although he surrounded himself with a group of friends who watched his back, Andre's life was intensely lonely and emotionally vacant.  Yet, he projected the image of a rebel with his untamed hairdo, piercings, and rowdy lifestyle.  He told one of his buddies that "having no choice, having no say about what I do or who I am, makes me crazy."  Since he had no childhood or adolescence to speak of (he turned pro at sixteen), Andre did not actually mature until much later.This book is a must read for tennis fans.  Andre traces his career in detail, and aficionados of the game will enjoy his candid account of his many successes and failures.  He also offers his opinions about his opponents, such as Jim Courier, Michael Chang, Boris Becker, Pete Sampras (his number one nemesis), and even Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal, whom he faced when they were just starting their careers.  Agassi discusses his personal life--including his now infamous drug use--and explains why his marriage to Brooke Shields was so short-lived.  He touchingly recalls how he wooed and won the hand of Steffi Graf, and revels in the success of the charter school he helped establish for underprivileged kids in Las Vegas.  "Open" is a forthright, smoothly written, and sardonically humorous account of the ups and downs in the life of a tennis icon.  Agassi makes it clear that to reach the top and stay there, a player must overcome a host of physical and mental obstacles.  Two points worth noting are that the quality of the grainy black and white photographs is poor and the book lacks an index, which would have been useful.  As is fitting, Agassi gives full credit to J. R. Moehringer, who along with others, helped shape this moving and absorbing autobiography.
5 This book is an easy read, but the main theme of the book - how Andre Agassi came to be who he is today is heavyweight stuff.  Agassi recounts his failures, flops and mistakes.  He also gives the reader a true picture of how he felt about people like Brooke Shields, his father, his mother, his brother, his friend Perry, his coach Brad Gilbert, his rivals - Pete Sampras and Jim Courier.As far as I can tell, no one has contradicted any of the stories in the book.  No one has said that Andre said something that was untrue about him.  To me - this says that Andre Agassi is a rare person who can look back at his life and tell his truth.The book pulls no punches.  There was no effort made to sugarcoat anything.Part of the book's credibility is that (a) Agassi says he hates tennis; (b) he says sometimes he did not try as hard as he should have in some matches; and (c) he describes his own failings and flaws.Most books by celebrities are full of half-truths and lies.  This book isn't one of them.Ultimately, it is well worth spending some time with Andre Agassi as he recounts his failings and triumphs.  You have to admire his courage and the wisdom gained from a life of experiences.This is one of the better autobiographies you will ever read.  When you are done, you may just think about who you are and how you got there.Thanks Andre.
5 Phenomenal...and I am not a tennis player!  But even I remember following Agassi as a kid.  In depth and yet always entertaining.  It is at times sad, painful, triumphant, stubborn, funny, and always addictive.  Couldn't put it down.
5 Rivetting, gripping - can't put down! very eloquently written. Entertaining and enlightening, discreet and humble. I LOVED IT
5 I am not a tennis buff, so I learned a lot about  the pressures on professional players.  His honesty about his father's vision for him was disturbing.  Very interesting story which seems to have a happy ending.
5 I had had no intention of reading Open, but was at the dentist's office, read an excerpt, enjoyed it. I bought the book, thinking it would be like reading a super-long People Magazine article. Open is a moving portrayal of Andre's journey from a sensitive, abused child, to a mature, loyal adult.Andre's youth is centered on his father, an Iranian immigrant who bought a house far enough outside Las Vegas to afford a property with room to build a tennis court. He built a court with a net one foot higher than usual, then he built a souped-up ball machine, called the Dragon, which he set up at the net to hurl 2500 balls a day at his 7 year old son. This example is just the tip of the iceberg of the things Andre's father, who is the Monster in the book, would do.It is amazing that Andre didn't just curl up in a ball with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. But the adult in him emerges. He has an almost-to-a-fault loyalty to people. He chose an inner circle of people who were good to him, and those were the only people he wanted to be around. If they left the circle, it is usually they who pulled out, not Andre who pushed them. Andre sees through the false veneer of celebrity, and would rather have spent evenings with his trainer and the trainers' kids than mingle with the glitterati.This book also treats you to the world of tennis.  Andre went through the youth circuit through the world championships and met the same players in matches over the years, so you read about how the players changed and how Andre's relationships with them developed.  His relationship with Brad Gilbert was particularly engaging, it was surprising that their very strong personalities could complement each other so well.This is a touching, fast read about how Andre matures and how the softer part of his personality is given room in his life.
4 Andre's life was not always smooth and happy, but knew tennis was the only life he knew and he found peace at the end.
4 In this book, Agassi reveals the misery he endured growing up at the hands of a tyrannical, joyless father. Throughout the book, Agassi maintains that he actually hates tennis.  He remains bitter about a lost childhood spent living out his father's monomaniacal desire to mold his youngest son into a great tennis player.  This includes suffering through practice sessions with the inhumane "dragon" tennis ball shooter that his father has designed, his father's vicious and unrelenting criticism, and the concentration camp-like Bollettieri tennis camp.  Agassi recounts all this in ugly detail.We also get entertaining accounts of Agassi's relationship with Brooke Shields and the resulting disdain he develops for materialistic, superficial Hollywood people, his personal dislike of tennis players such as Boris Becker and Pete Sampras, and his descent into depression and crystal meth abuse.  All in all, Agassi comes off as a likable guy:  he presents himself as a down-to-earth man who cherishes the love he receives from those closest to him and through his philanthropic activities, hopes to help other children have the opportunities he never had.Of course, that warm and fuzzy description seems a tad idealized.  Despite all these lofty intentions and his professed hatred of tennis, Agassi's incredible achievements on the court reveal a frightening competitiveness and talent.  He may claim to hate tennis, but he sure learns to care about it with every ounce of his strength.It's a little disorienting to feel a sense of intimacy reading Agassi's blow-by-blow accounts of his tennis matches, like you're speaking with a good friend...until you realize that the achievements he's talking about are among the greatest ever attained by any human who's played the game and that this is a tennis god among men.  The regular guy depicted in the book is anything but a regular guy.  Still, his disdain for artifice and willingness to write honestly about both the proud and shameful moments of his life is refreshing and makes for a gripping autobiography.Throughout the book, Agassi regrets his lack of formal education and his dropping out of school in the ninth grade.  So I found it incredible to read the sophisticated, well-crafted prose in the book.  When the heck did this guy learn to write like this when he barely had any schooling and has spent all his time playing tennis?  It almost seemed too good to be true.  As it turns out, it was.  Although no co-author is mentioned on the cover or in the promotions of the book, in the final pages, Agassi reveals us that "J.R." has helped him to write it, basing it on hours of interviews.Since he didn't actually write the book by himself, I can't give it five stars.  But in some ways, I'm relieved to find out he did get help writing it.  If one of the greatest athletes in history also turned out to be some kind of a genius who could become a professional-level writer in his spare time, then life really would be unfair!
4 Funny how you get an impression of someone famous by the snapshots you see. Or should I say what the media creates. My idea of Agassi was a brash, flashy kid who started out with long hair, did those Canon commercials, married a model (Brooke Shields).  Sounds good to me. From the outside looking in, fame always seems that way. But all is not as it seems. Agassi was bred by his father to become a tennis star, hours upon hours of practice, sent away to a bootcamp like tennis academy to hone his skills. Throughout the book he claims to hate tennis, this life thrust upon him, no other choices available. This memoir chronicles his struggles and triumphs, how he ultimately came to terms with his profession. Agassi comes across honest and heartfelt, he is not afraid to show all his warts. Their are plenty of suprises along the way, I enjoyed this book, especially the descriptions of the tennis matches, they really are like heavyweight fights, each opponent trading blows with the other. And like all fighters their comes a day when you have to retire and move on to the next phase of life, which Agassi seems to have done quite nicely.
5 Couldn't put this book down. I thought I knew this guy, but nope. Not at all. This was an intriguing look into one of the greatest tennis players of all time. Who knew he was a Richard Marx-listening-dork? Aside from that, it was an eye opening account of the tennis world, rivalries, hardships, work, talent, and how tough this sport is on your body & mind. I thought I was a tennis fan before but this upped the ante and changed how I view the sport. Get this book.
4 I just finished reading Andre Agassi's Autobiography, "Open".It's a must-read for everybody who loves tennis and would like to have an idea of what happens in the tour, how players build their teams, and what goes inside their heads during matches.The book starts with his last victory in the tour, against Marcos Baghdatis, going back to his childhood in Las Vegas, all the way to his retirement in 2006, and ends with details about the charity school he founded. He talks about his team, his relationships, his development as a player, his opponents, his issues, and everything in between.There is this one unifying theme, which I don't really like, in this book - its his general hate for tennis. It's like a nagging reminder (somewhat arrogant) of how good he is that he was able to achieve greatness in a sport he hates, unlike most of his readers, who actually love tennis but never reached even a fraction of his achievements.Nevertheless, it's an easy read and highly recommended for tennis fans.
5 There are already enough reviews here talking about what is in this book, so I'll just focus on the one thing that struck me the most.Andre writes about how so many people loved him and so many others hated him back when he was breaking into the tennis world, but none of them knew him. I was one of those who hated him. Like many others, I thought he was brash, vacuous, egotistical, etc., etc. I rooted against him in every match he played and celebrated his losses in major finals. And so on.Now that I have read his story, I find him to be an incredibly genuine and decent person. Although the past is fixed, I root for him in every match now, as I read them in his book. More importantly, I root for him to be happy, to find himself, to find what was missing through much of his life. Much of what he writes about, I can relate to. I have been estranged from my family for decades and have spent much of that time trying to find a surrogate family of my own.I guess my final thought is this: How nice it would be if we could all read each other's stories and evaluate each other based on something other than what we see on the surface. I know that for myself, I will spend the rest of my life trying to no longer judge a book by its cover, but will wait until I have read the book!
5 Loved it! His childhood reminded me of Dieckens' David Copperfield! I resisted reading it because I am one of those who felt cheated. But I am glad I finally read his autobiography...
5 I have been a tennis fan since 1968.  I was not a fan of Andre Agassi until fairly late in his career.  Like a lot of people, I thought he was all image and no substance.  However, I did grow to appreciate him and see him as an amazing tennis player.  There was something in his eyes that captured my attention and I had a complete turnaround and became a nutty fan, sitting in the stands at Key Biscayne, freezing my butt off until midnight, watching Andre play. In fact, I saved money every year, specifically to travel to Miami to see that tournament. I haven't returned since 2006 when I was disappointed that Andre dropped out because of injury.  No need to go to a tournament these days, since no one out there is exciting enough to spend that much money to see. (Hey, Miami in March is expensive!!!)This book is amazing!!  Calling it open was giving it a title that was completely true. Andre tells everything about his life, from the beginning to his last match on Arthur Ashe Stadium center court. It's an amazing read, full of sadness and humor. The way he felt about his father made me cry but, later, when Andre writes about his father's first meeting with Stefanie's father was hilarious!!  The part about the meth use, that has gotten the most attention, is very, very small.  But how Andre got away from that and raised his game and found real love . . . well, that overshadows everything.  It's wonderful to see someone grow up into a good human being; someone who is respected and loved by so many people.Everybody should read this book, tennis fan or not.  I'm so happy it is a major bestseller.  It is a well written, page turner that will make you cry in both sadness and joy and laugh out loud.
5 I'll admit that I was more of a Sampras fan, but I loved Agassi as well.  For me, he was easy to like as an older player.  It was truly wonderful to read this book and come away with a glimpse into what was behind those tears of joy and self talk on the court. I had no concept of the pain he played with.  He took a risk by putting it all out there in the open, and I have lost no love for him in doing so.  Stories about human struggle are nothing new, and this certainly falls into that category.  I think anyone who grew up with overbearing fathers (like myself) will relate to this.  I did find myself disappointed at a few things though.According to Agassi, the book is presented as more of a diary for his kids, so that they will be able to know their father and his journey to find himself and become the individual he now is.  Not transformed, but formed from nothing.  He wants to present the lessons he learned the hard way so that they may avoid falling into the same traps.  For the most part, mission accomplished.  I can certainly understand how a person would turn out in such a way given his journey.That said, I don't think he's completely open regarding his drug use.  There were some things that bothered me about it if he truly intends for this book to be about life lessons for his kids.  When he CHOOSES to become a drug user for the first time, he says it's as if he hears a voice behind him say something to the effect of "you know what, yeah, F*** it, let's do it."  Come on Andre, own it.  It wasn't a voice, it was Andre.  I really think he needs to point out that he owns that decision and takes responsiblity for it, not that the voice made him do it.  What kind of lesson is that?  I was particularly disappointed by that as it seemed like an easy way to shirk responsibility for his disastrous choice.Also, if he truly intends to be open, then it seems to me to be a glaring omission of the when, where, and how he informed Stephanie that he was recently a lying meth user.  Isn't honesty in relationships a pretty important thing to teach kids?  He obviously did the meth when Brooke wasn't around, then never mentioned how he broke it to the love of his life and mother of his children.  It seems like an important obstacle he would have had to face and there was a lot to be learned from facing it and overcoming it.  I have a hard time believing that Stephanie Graf was cool with the meth use.All in all, I enjoyed exploring Andre's fascinating life.  He's a great person despite his shortcomings.
5 This is a wonderful book, my favorite.  I have read it four times.  What makes it great is that he isso honest and tells his problems and weaknesses in detail and how he has learned from them.Plus, he finally found the perfect wife for him in Stephanie Graff.He is a hard worker and so is she.  Sounds as if they truly love each other and that makes all thedifference.His young life was difficult in that he had to practice tennis all the time, yet he still got to hang out withhis friends, go to movies and such.  His love for his brother, Philly, is special.When I run out of anything to read I reread Open.
3 I found the product fair and reasonable.The printed version is very poor, low quality pictures not very adeguate to the book
5 When I started reading the book, I couldn't help but think of the irony as Agassi complains about how much he hates tennis and his aches and pains as he lies on his bed at the 4 Seasons Hotel in NYC! Life's complaints are relative I guess. Would trade with you any day Andre. However, I know it sounds like a cliche, but I really couldn't put the book down. A lot of Agassi's behaviors are explained by the relentless efforts of his father to make him the number one tennis player in the world. I enjoyed the unbelievable stories about his father. In one instance Agassi witnessed his dad beat up a truck driver in a road rage incident. In another, his father tries to make him take speed before a match. As crazy as his father was, at least his father took interest in his life and spent time with him which is way more than most of us can say about our fathers. I loved reading about his love affairs with Brooke Shields and Steffi Graff and at times frustrated with his insecurities and losses. As good as Agassi was as a tennis player, he could have been even better. He would self destruct over and over, but you have to admire his persistence to keep fighting. I don't believe for a minute he hates tennis as he claims. Without tennis he's not Andre Agassi. Overall I loved reading this book.
4 Very good book but beware of the insanely foul language. 4 star.The book provides a tremendous insight into the mind and life of this tennis champion.If you can get past the language there are many great life lessons to learn from the book.
5 Andre Agassi keeps it real, in a very good way.  He seems to have an open soul.  Whoever he had helping him do the mechanics of writing is a brilliant writer.  Each sentence piqued my interest to read the next, as did the paragraphs and the pages.  I enjoyed reading this book, and read it too fast.Not one chapter bored me or made me wish to skip it.  This book is very well-written.I never liked tennis either, but the power and competition of the games he described really gathered me in.  I know a lot about competitive sports, so I could relate to the heart-crushing defeats and the mind-blowing wins.  How sport does become a metaphor and frame for life.  One gets knocked down, and one gets up again.Thank you, Mr. Agassi, for allowing us quite close into your world, to see how you grew despite emotional abuse, and how you truly did become the kind of person that makes a difference on the planet.  I miss being in on the ups and downs of your life.
5 There's always something special when somebody opens up like this to you. You get to see the dark secrets, the unexpected motivations and the greatness to be found in pretty much anyone giving everything they have to give to a achieve a particular goal. I've gained a lot by reading this book. You should read it, and if you like tennis, YOU SHOULD READ IT, NOW!
3 I am a big Agassi fan.  And, I probably wished I had not read this book.  But, there was no way I could not read it.  It was written by J.R.Moehringer.  It is well written but too verbose.  The book would have been more impactful if it was a 100 page shorter.I have read many champion autobiographies including SamprasA Champion's Mind: Lessons from a Life in Tennis, BeckerThe Player: The Autobiography, McEnroeYou Cannot Be Serious, and NastaseMr Nastase: The Autobiography.  I found Agassi's the most disturbing on several counts.His childhood is 10 times worse than I thought.  He is tyrannized by his father who belonged to either a mental institution or a jail.  Agassi's father does crazy stunts such as faking his hanging, pointing a gun at Andre, getting into violent fights with others.  This makes me curious aboutThe Agassi Storythat focuses on the dad.Agassi hatred of tennis is unprecedented.  He states his hatred ad nausea throughout the book.  Why even do it?  When asked the question, Agassi just responds "because that is the only thing I am good at."Throughout most of his tennis career, he criticizes everyone he comes across.  According to him Jim Courier is a thug, Connors is an a-hole, Chang is a Jesus freak.He gets catty in his rivalry with Sampras.  He states: "I envy Pete's dullness.  I wish I could emulate his spectacular lack of inspiration."  Yet, Sampras demonstrated just as much inspiration with his racket as Agassi did.  And, off the court Brooke Shields stated how unadventurous Agassi was outside tennis.  Later, Agassi extracts from a parking attendant that Sampras gave him a tip of only one dollar.  At such point, Agassi exclaims "Pete and I could not be more different" entailing Sampras is a scrooge and he is generous.  In their respective biographies, Sampras was far more generous to Agassi than vice versa.Another disturbing aspect is Agassi's routinely tanking matches and skipping Gran Slam tournaments for no valid reason.  He tanks a semi final vs Chang just because he does not feel like playing his arch rival Becker in the final!  Also, in another form of tanking he gets kicked off the court several times by cursing at linesmen.Agassi also lacks any autonomy.  Someone else always does the thinking.  He surrounds himself with a large support group (Team Agassi).  His older brother Philly and his childhood friend Perry do all the strategic business thinking for him.  J.P. constantly consoles him like a child.  Gil Reyes is his fitness and guru go to guy.  And, Brad Gilbert is his tennis brain.  His relationship with women are invariably initiated by Team Agassi.  The latter arranges his meeting Brooke Shields.  She seems the woman every which way.  But, he shows no interest in her career.  Yet, he proposes to marry her even though he did not want to.  After a miserable two years, she opts for divorce.  Then, Brad Gilbert arranges his meeting Steffi Graf.  And, Team Agassi plays a dominant role in planning the courting of Graf.  A certain amount of support is normal, but Team Agassi is clearly an outlier.Many of his personal decisions are bad including his taking meth and lying about it to the ATP.  Also, his wearing a wig in his early twenties is unheard off in tennis history.  At another time, he acts like a jealous teenager and abruptly leaves a NY stage and drives off to Vegas when Brooke has to lick an actor's hand.  He blows over half his first significant tournament earnings on a corvette.  Earlier, in school he does everything to fail and drops out with just an 8th grade education.  Later, he admits to have lied a lot during interviews.  He states "are they lies if through sheer repetition, they've taken on a veneer of truth?"  Until his thirties he does not seem to know what's right.By his thirties, Agassi finally reaches maturity.  His judgment improves.  His relationships with other players have normalized.  He now treats Courier and Sampras, both retired, with more respect and as friends.  Earlier on he always liked Patrick Rafter that he felt was the class act on and off the court.  In the twilight of his career, after being trounced a couple of times by an emerging Federer he is in awe of his talent.  And, he has no doubt he just ran into the next big one.  Facing Nadal, he expresses similar awe and respect.One fascinating aspect of the book is the training the father imparts on Agassi early on.  The father is a maniac and also a training genius.  He engineers a tall ball machine (the Dragon) that he places close to the net that hits balls at 110 mph like an overhead at Agassi when he is only seven.  The only way to hit the ball back was to hit it really early otherwise, the ball would bounce off the court above his head.  I always thought Agassi had a god-gifted eye-hand coordination that allowed him to see the ball better than anyone else and hit the best returns.  Now, I know that stuff can be taught!Another fascinating passage is the description of the Bollettieri Tennis Academy.  This academy produced numerous champions including Agassi, Courier, Krickstein, and Arias.  but, they were all baseliners with lackluster serve and volley.  Agassi complaints to his Dad that the academy is ruining his game (no serve or volley practice).  Agassi's lack of a powerful serve and proficient volley will prove a handicap vs Sampras.  Agassi describes this academy as very regimented regarding tennis but wild otherwise.  The place emanates a culture of near violent social Darwinism that Bollettieri encourages.  Agassi describes it asLord of the Flieswith forehands.You have to give Agassi credit for courage.  He does not spin the story in his favor.  "Open" is a cathartic confession.  At the end there is redemption.  With the management skills of Perry he will create a k-12 charter school for abused children.  This is ironic for one who hated school and was a Middle School drop out.  Throughout the book, you find that Agassi's only satisfaction comes from helping others.  This is something he could not express on the ATP tour.  Now, Agassi the philanthropist is far more self-actualized than Agassi the tennis star ever was.  But, he is grateful for tennis for making it all possible.
5 This book really is something different. I would not normally read a sports biography, most of them are cliche-ridden (At the end of the day) but not this one. Andre Agassi is extremely honest and frank about his life and career. What surprises most is the player's hatred of his own sport and his determination to define his own identity. The bright side is that he finds things in life that he really does love.
5 Andre does a very good job of opening up his life for the reader.  Very honest writing.  Very emotional.  Great read!
5 There are many of us of a certain age who knew nothing about Tennis until Agassi blasted himself in front of our eyes.We thought Tennis, Croguet Clubs along with Horse Shows were for the very rich or for those who thought they were special.I read the book twice looking for deeper meaning such as many of the comments offered here but I still think Agassi was 'spoofing' the old-old Tennis Meme.Snatching-Up that pair of blue denim tennis shorts was what it was all about if you grew up on a desert in Nevada and were paying attention to the ancient culture of Tennis.I loved the book and recommend it highly. Be prepared to smile a little.::GP
5 I was completely hooked from the very first page. Andre Agassi's disarmingly candid introspective offers readers an intimate glimpse into this enormously gifted athlete's life. I found myself cheering all over again for both his on- and off-the-court victories and aching for his emotional and physical challenges. I am grateful that he has so openly given his fans the opportunity to know him better.
4 Having been a nationally ranked tennis player myself in the senior divisions, I came to Andre Agassi's OPEN with more than passing interest. But I also came with a skepticism reserved for sports autobiographies, their subjects, and ghost writers. The book is easy to read, but after consuming the first 100 pages, I wasn't sure I wanted to continue. Agassi comes across as an excessively self-absorbed whiner who hates tennis. Of course, his father was a tyrant, a man with an explosive temper driven to turn his prodigy into the best tennis player in the world. The Nick Bollettieri Academy in Bradenton (where I happen to live) is an unglorified prison camp that turns the tennis players into animals. Agassi rebels and drops out of school in the 9th grade.Did I really want to read any more of this? I stayed with it, through Agassi's failed marriage to Brooke Shields, his losses on the tennis courts, his 8 Grand Slam titles, and finally his courtship of and marriage to Steffi Graf.  I'll admit that I shed a tear as I watched him mature in the final stages of the book. Because I am a tennis player, the most revealing portions of the book are the thoughts that cross Agassi's mind as he is engaged in combat with the best tennis players in the world. It's true that NOT thinking allows one to play better tennis, but who has not imagined victory or defeat, daydreamed, manufactured excuses, or swatted at irrelevancies during a match. I know I have, and it was comforting to learn that Agassi had as well. I wish him the best of luck with his Andre Agassi Charitable Foundation and his Andre Agassi College Preparatory Academy.
4 I found this book very interesting.  The relationship with his father is good stuff in the beginning of the book.  That he quit school after 8th grade was something that I did not know.  I enjoyed the part of what he was thinking while playing the matches.  I could have done without the match to match detail.  The best part of this book was finding out that I really didn't know what made Agassi tick at all!  It's a bit long but overall it's a book worth reading.
5 For someone who for many years always dismissed Agassi simply as a show-off, I was amazed how little by little he has grown on me throughout the years and I think the process was only completed with my complete reading of this book. This is one thorugh and entertaining biography by an extremely sensitive and complicated man, I mean, what other person could marry such extreme opposites as Brooke Shields and Steffi Graff? In the end I think Agassi's biggest attribute wasn't talent or consistency but the loyalty to his people. This is an amazingly candid book that goes into as much detail about his private life as it does on the psychology of his biggest tennis matches. Stuff that as a fan you wouldn't imagine while watching a game on TV. I'm not sure I'll ever understand why he would detail so much, so very personal and painful stuff but all of it certainly helps paint a complete picture of him.On my part I'll always be more of a Sampras fan but will also can't help but cheer for Agassi in whatever it is he does in the future.
5 I loved the book.  It was well-written and I completely reversed my view of him and his life after reading it.  I always admired him as a tennis player, but since reading the book, also admire him as a human being.  I shared the book with many friends and they liked the book and felt they understood him better,
5 I love Andre Agassi!  I use to watch him every time competed in his tennis matches.  I was astonished to read some of the things that he disclosed in his book.  This book is not boring at all, and I'm glad Andre told his story!
5 Even if you're not exactly up to speed on your deuce courts and forty-loves, you could still do much worse than spending a few days with tennis champion Andre Agassi's autobiography, Open. Yes, first and foremost, it is the story of an athlete, but the book is equally engaging when it moves beyond the matches to reveal the man -- conflicted, flawed, and at odds with the sport he's supposed to love. Through the prose of J.R. Moehringer, of The Tender Bar fame, Agassi chronicles his pockmarked journey from berated child prodigy, to precocious, rebellious teenager, to husband, father and legend.The defining characteristic of this book is its honesty. With anecdotes about his infamous on-court tantrums or fights with his first wife Brooke Shields, Agassi frequently appears the prize idiot. That makes the book incredibly fun to read -- and you're willing to indulge Agassi here and there when he makes himself out to look better than he may have deserved. Even so, throughout the book, it seems clear that Agassi's not publishing this book as a testament to his own ego (though, yes, autobiographies are by definition self-serving). Nor is he grinding an axe. Sure, there are the requisite asides about other players he didn't care for, but on the whole, what we have is a rare, riveting and unbelievable forthright glimpse into the life of one of the most beloved American athletes of all time.Don't let the fact that many of the juiciest tidbits were already widely reported deter you from picking up the book. Yes, he used crystal meth on occasion for a brief, particularly rough patch in his life. Yes, his famous 'do of the early '90s was actually a hairpiece. And, yes, he really did hate tennis. And that is the one admission that ties the whole book together. Agassi played tennis the way many of us do our jobs, we put our heads down and go to work, looking forward to those things that make us truly happy. Agassi was no different: As he matured, he found ways that tennis could be a means to an end, like providing money and visibility for his charity that built a charter school in Las Vegas, and finally marrying the love of his life, Steffi Graf
5 Fantastic book.  Without a doubt the best sports autobiography I have ever read, and one of the best auto's period.  I'm not even a big tennis fan but this book was amazing.  Excellent writing. Just a fascinating read. Congrats Andre!
5 A fascinating look at one of the most decorated tennis stars of the last few decades.  Open provides an in-depth look at how Andre Agassi became an incredible tennis star and the thoughts and emotions he dealt with along the way.  This is one of the better biographies that I have ever read as it allows the reader to see the stress, frustration, and other challenges that come to professional athletes.
5 Candour.  Honesty.  Simplicity.  Andre could have been anyone telling you his story and you would be hooked.  That's the beauty of Open.  You feel like Andre's sitting there in a coffee shop directly across the table opening up to you.The vivid imagery strikes you from page one and doesn't let up.  You can only imagine that so much was left out, but enough of the compelling stuff was left in.  No wasted words here.The irony is the love and fascination that Andre Agassi inspired as a tennis hero was just another phenomenon.  Agassi the never-say-die battler was ultimately a public image forged for and by the masses.  And one that had nothing to do with the real turmoil - Andre was dying inside to find himself and live the truth, but could not do so fully, because of his strange circumstances.Open is so very much a confession of those accumulated feelings and razor sharp recollections.  Of what it really means to be a tennis pro.  It's lonely at the top, and for Agassi, it was lonely every time he stepped onto the court.For Agassi, being a sports celebrity was like living Groundhog Day over and over; trying to find inspiration and meaning in a world where he had no other choice except play.Open is about how Agassi's mind tries to transcend those pigeonholes.  And how one man finds his soul and meaning in life.There is a primalness about Open that reminded me strangely of reading something like Tom Sawyer or Huckleberry Finn back in high school.  Perhaps its a similar story of a boy trying to grow up into a man with the help of friends.  It should be reading not just for tennis fans, but for a lot of other people too.PS - Search for interviews online after you've read this book.  It'll give you more perspective on Agassi and his dad, whom some may perceive to be a villain - but is in fact not.  Life is too complex to be just black or white, and Agassi acknowledges that.
4 What a revelation! Thoroughly enjoyed this book and the insight to people who represent their country. What an interesting story, and a life obviously well recorded.
5 An amazing book, not only well written, but gives an insight into Agassi's life and shows what a difference one man can make in the lives of thousands.  Not only is he very brave, hardworking entertaining, but a man with a huge heart who feels for others and shares his good fortune with the less fortunate.  Thank you for sharing your story so openly and giving us a glimpse into the hardships that made you the man you are who deserves respect and admiration.
5 From the moment I finished reading the first chapter, I knew Open was special. I never knew anything about Andre Agassi before I read this book, I like watching Tennis when I can. Agassi claims he's one of those tennis players who bring the best out of not-so-worthy opponents. His best matches are often matches when he was 2 sets down only to come back with a different attitude in the deciding sets. What really won the book for me was Agassi's absolutely mortifying description of how much he hated tennis and his childhood. I will give Open full marks for irony and Agassi doesn't hold anything back with respect to what he really thinks of tennis players or the media or England or France. His relationship with his brother and best friend is heartening to read about.On the back of this book there is this photo of Agassi as a 8 year old tennis player and I feel that book says it all. I started reading this book during the beginning of the year and I finished it early Feb. Maybe I wanted to read one chapter a day so as to absorb the most of the book.I don't necessarily think of Open as a self-help book. I think of it is a beautiful piece of art worth celebrating and commemorating. Open is a lovely autobiography of a tennis players life. Of how after two hours of a tennis match, there are only two tennis players and everything else is inconsequential. Agassi the rebel, Agassi the punk, Agassi the star, Agassi the cool kid, Agassi the aggressor, Agassi the quiet, Agassi the hustler, Alle Agassi.I'm going to make everyone who's influenced my life remotely read this. I don't even feel like sharing this book yet with many people. It's an absolutely harrowing read. There are many things we might have disliked about Agassi if we knew him but the journey this man had before reaching his best deserves an award.The book is flawless, readers.
5 Just finished reading this on Kindle and bought a second paperback for an avid tennis and Andre fan.  Andre mentions in the book when he has played a thousand matches (after 20+ years) that he can remember every one of them and as you read the book he tells you about every important shot in many of them.  This to me is truly an amazing thing as I can't even remember what I had for dinner 2 nights ago.  Maybe he researched some of this but it seems that he has an amazing memory for these events and also the amazing events in his life.  And what an amazing life he has lived, from the strict tennis training that his father put him through to his life as one of tennis' best players ever.  Truly a fun and interesting read.
4 After attending a dinner function where Andre was the guest, I decided to read his book.  What an amazing person.  No only did he hate tennis,but he was Mr &#34;Anti&#34; everyhting. However through his upstand downs he has proved to be the key person in raising money to educate the under privileged children not only on Las Vegas but throughout America. 100% educational reading showing that if you have the will you can do anything.  Totally recommend for everyone to read
4 This book is a quick read and very interesting insight into a pro athlete's life.  I am not sure Andre's life was 'normal' but it sure is fascinating to read.  There is a lot of detail devoted to actual tennis games/matches and it helps if you are a tennis fan otherwise this part may be a bit drawn out for you.  The rest of the book though is devoted to Andre's mental, emotional and physical state and it takes you on twists and turns that are both painful and fascinating.  All in all it seems like it took courage to write this book and I applaude him for it.  So many people are mis-understood and we should take care to remember that we don't know what is really going on under the surface.  Don't judge a book by it's cover, as they say!
5 By now we have seen many times the tragic and flawed formula that became Andre Aggasi's life. We almost know it by heart. Most famously we saw it in the past by the likes of Mozart -- but more recently in the lives of Drew Barrymore, the William sisters, even in Aggassi's ex-, Brook Shields, and most recently and most tragically, in the twisted life and death of the late Michael Jackson.Like clockwork we see it repeated again and again. The formula I refer to of course is that of a selfish, egomaniacal and tyrannical parent: driven by their own failed dreams, electing to hew from the clay that is their children's lives, a model of an ironed-willed robotic perfectionist. If Tiger Wood's father, Earl Woods can be said to be the best of this lot, then surely Joe Jackson and Mike Aggasi, Andre Aggasi's father, were the worst. To say that Aggasi's father was abusive to him as well as to he rest of the Aggasi family would be a laughable understatement.We called these automatons of perfection, willed into being (and to fame) by such parents, child prodigies. But from the start the sad truth is that these are little more than tormented, twisted and distorted little souls, robbed of a normal childhood. They are freaks of nature tolerated and justified by society only because the results have a positive but grotesque overside: These kids, even though they do not have a personality, or are otherwise empty vessels ill-equipped for the trials of life, at the end of their parent-imposed prison sentence, do own a life skill they may never have acquired except through the tyranny of their parents. But despite this single positive result, their little lives remain a shamble. This tyranny should be seen for what it is: pure and simple, child abuse.All too often, imposing parental will through tyranny is viewed as a formula of last resort to ensure a successful career for a lacksidaisical child. Faced with the overwhelming power of their parents, most children simply go along to get along, as Andre did, at least in the beginning. The difference here is that Andre had the introspective foresight even at an early age to know that his life "was being hijacked," ripped from under him, by his father. He rebelled against this tyranny at every turn and in every way available to him: At first feebly, and then later with all of his power. But by the time he was old enough to really do anything about it, he was trapped: muscle and brain memory had settled in. The skills he had learned in the prison that became the tennis court (and the dragon, the ball machine), against his will, had settled in and taken over his young mind and body.  With an eighth grade education, there was nothing else in life he was prepared to do but the tennis he had learned to hate? This was of course the real result, the ultimate goal of the parent: To present his child with an irreversible fait accompli, for life.And here is where the beauty that is Andre Aggassi comes shinning through.  This is what this autobiography, Open is all about.Trapped in this lemon grove, not of his making, Aggasi began, through tennis, a life quest, a self-construction project to recover the missing parts of his hijacked life. He made lemonade in this asphalt, clay and grass lemon grove with the kind of gusto that makes him an existential hero of magnificent proportions.  That is to say, the results of his life speak for themselves: A contented man comfortable in his own skin (although the pathos of his life struggle still remains etched on his face), a beautiful family, rich beyond imagination, and giving life blood back to his own kids and to other youngsters who may have been even less fortunate than he. Having been tennis champion for almost twenty years is just the gravy on a life turned around and lived well.How did he do it? That is really what this book is about.He did it by accepting the reality of his fate, but not its contents. There, his intuition and deep sense of self-preservation and deep pride took over and led him to assemble "team Aggasi," his own self-made life support system, and together they embarked on the "Andre Aggassi self-construction project." And what a beautiful edifice it has become. From a snotty-nosed rebellious misfit (with an ear ring and too much hair), Andre Aggassi began to take his life into his own hands and blasted out of the prison his father had built for him. He did this on his own terms, and even though eventually turning prematurely bald, succeeded beyond anyone's (and even his own) wildest imagination. And though his tyrannical father may have gotten the ball rolling by building a trap for him in a rectangular cage with a net he always hated, in the end the final creation was all Andre Aggassi's.Told with almost poetic skill, this is surely the biography of the year, if not of the decade. Ten Stars.
4 I enjoyed reading this book no doubt, especially when it covered Andre's early and later years but a lot of the book was repetitive. Why was it necessary for him to explain every detail about many of his big matches? Don't get me wrong, some of his insight was fantastic and I really got a sense of what it's like to be a professional athlete but I think it could've used some page trimming.Overall I would recommend the book. Andre is an interesting character and has a lot to say. I loved it when he mentioned that the zillionaire Sampras was a cheap tipper!Now I can't wait for his next book about the charter school he opened in Vegas. Andre the Educator!
5 I found the book a great read.  While I found the sport of tennis frustrating to play, I always enjoyed watching players like Agassi.  This book gives great insight into the world of the "tennis brat", a creation of Nick Bollettieri, that has led to dead ends in so many kids lives.  He of course is not alone in this endeavor as so many other misguided ventures in baseball, basketball, etc. exist in America leaving so many to dead ends and false hopes.However, I don't believe for one moment that Mr. Agassi "hates" the game of tennis.  His exploration of his inner self so well illustrated in this book, to the contrary, as well as any book I have read, shows the zeal and sacrifices all who desire to be the best are required to make.  All, like Mr. Agassi, who have to drive themselves to achieve to be the best with all the sacrifices and pain required to do so are naturally going to to blame the sport and/or profession.  However, this "fault" is what makes those like Mr. Agassi such fierce competitors and winners both on and off the court and allowed him to continue to an age few dare to go.  If anything, I think Mr. Agassi's story is one of repetition of those who reach the pinnacle of any endeavor.Similarly, Mr. Agassi's frustrations in "life" are similar to those he experiences on the tennis court.  Again, he strives to find himself and I think to his credit, was honest and achieved his goal in doing so.  Was there some self-justification and rationalization in this book to make his point, of course, but his story is compelling nonetheless.His ultimate joy, his marriage to Stefanie Graf and the way they have lived their lives together shows just how Agassi has indeed ultimately fulfilled his dream. Stefanie is all that is good about sports.  I applaud their efforts to use their post-professional time to better their family as well as their extended family in the Agassi Academy.The book was very well written and, in my opinion, very captivating, to my surprise as I wasn't expecting much.  The reader must understand that Agassi did NOT write this book and if there is any criticism of it, mine would be that there were circumstances in Agassi's life that I think the writer took some liberty (although obviously approved by Agassi himself)in embellishing in a way that seemed out of character for the "real Agassi" as was portrayed through most of the book.This is a book I would highly recommend.
5 I really enjoy reading this book! I'm not a Agassi fan and I don't even play tennis. But because of the rave review I bought this book and from the first page I knew I would love it. To me, Agassi is someone I heard remotely from childhood, who's a legend in tennis and later on married another legend Steffi Graf. That's all I know about him. But his candidness in this autobiography draws me in to his world, a world started with tennis, which he claimed numerous times in the book that he hates, and ended with tennis, which I believe is something he loves and passionate about all his life. I love his voice of honesty, straightforwardness, and not afraid of revealing who he is. It takes courage to expose yourself to the whole world like that, and I really admire his actions in inviting everyone to get to know him, as a tennis legend and as a human being who's having his life struggles just like you and me.And the book is written with humor and at some point it really cracks me up! Agassi is not a perfect one, but this book certainly takes him to the next level.Read this book and you will enjoy it!
5 Awesome book. Well worth your time and money. The opening quote from Van Gogh says it all about this book. You will NOT be disappointed.
5 I have read a lot of memoir but this one is the best.  The game of tennis provides insight to the game of life."Open" is so well written and it has some serious life lessons in it.  Anyone who wants to read about what it takes to be a top touring pro tennis player will find this book a good primer.  Andre and the rest of the touring pros may seem on TV to have it made but read this book and find out the truth!  This book will detail what it takes to be a successful not only in tennis but in life.
4 Open: an AutobiographyExcellent reading. Insight into behind the scenes in the tennis world. Never thought it was easy but this is fantastic !
5 You won't put down this book until you're done. To anyone familiar with the game of tennis, thinking about Andre Agassi will inevitably conjure up the images of a tennis icon. However, if you're not familiar with his earlier years of rebellion and image in the press (I sure wasn't), you're in for an emotional roller coaster ride that is Agassi's life. This is an incredibly candid book, which details experiences that all of us can relate to, only with maybe one exception: Agassi's life is on fast-forward, as he hits more peaks and valleys (physical and emotional) in his career as a pro tennis player as many of us do in a lifetime.I could never tell why I was rooting for Agassi whenever I saw him play, but having read this book I can only appreciate that feeling even more. Open is an emotional book, and one that will make you reflect on your life, relationships and goals as well. Very well written, and a captivating read whether you're a tennis fan or not.
4 The beginning of this book (dealing with his kooky dad) is can't-put-it down good, but then after he hits it big, the narrative hits some turbulence. It's not that there still isn't value--most notably how hard it is to maintain peak performance among elite competitors, but his carping on hating tennis sounds old and not believeable and a he gets a bit too self-involved for my interest. I skimmed a bit, but still worth reading, even if not a tennis fan (I am not).
5 Although I grew up watching Agassi's match regularly on TV, I never paid much attention & didn't know or care much about his personal life. I'm not a fan of autobiography neither, as I find them tend to be one-dimensional & read like history textbook. 'Open' is such a nice surprise, & way beyond my expectation. It's well written, sincere, captivating & absolutely candid. I never want to put down the book once I start reading, and I haven't felt that way about a book for a while now. Now that I've finished it, I not merely learn more about Agassi as a person, but I also learn more about myself and has gained a more lucid perspective about life. Thank you Agassi for openly reveal your feelings with us...
5 Did not expect this! A sad, but inspired fairy tale and a happy well deserved ending...Loved the style of writing..admire the honesty of the man...admire the man immensely after reading this and his exceptional wife and friends...Andre is such a heartful person...appreciate his candor...humor as well. A life well lived! Bravo!
5 A house guest showed up with this book and I was given three evenings to devour it. I looked forward to the end of every day when I could sit down for a few hours with Agassi's well written life story. I like the way he edited each tennis match (well, most of them) down to a few succinct lines. The degree of practice, training and physical stamina that it took to persevere and maintain his status as a champion came through. What also came through was Agassi's relentless need to make his life matter through personal relationships and through service to others. "This is the only perfection there is, the perfection of helping others. This is the only thing we can do that has any lasting value or meaning. This is why we are here. To make each other feel safe" (page 231). I've often thought this and I'm glad that Andre Agassi voiced it so eloquently. In addition to waxing philosophic, he also exhibits a (dry) sense of humor here and there. Well written and well edited. I enjoyed it.
5 I love memoirs.  I was also a big Andre Agassi fan back in the day when he had long hair and wore jean shorts.  Because of this, I was excited to read his book.  I was not disappointed.  A good memoirist doesn't hold anything back.  Andre definitely did not hold a thing back.  This book is so, so good, that I don't think any other tennis memoir will ever be better.  I read other good ones, likeDays of Graceby Arthur Ashe andYou Cannot Be Seriousby Johnny Mac, but neither of them held a candle to Agassi's.  A great read.
4 I'm not a tennis fan but read this book based on it's outstanding comercial reviews. They were right.  I gained a great deal on insight into professional tennis and Agassi in particular. The book could have been improved by cutting out some of the match descriptions. Although Agassi may remember the details of each and every match, after a while they all blurred together for me.
5 There was no way I expected to read such a revealing and enjoyable book. It's terribly corny but it did inspire me. For a person in which I had little interest or knowledge, I acknowledge complete and utter respect!
5 What a natural, down to earth likable man Andre is.I feel that I could sit with him and a drink and talk for hours.A truly inspirational person.At the close of the book, I felt like I knew him.
5 I got this book for my husband, the order was shipped quickly and the book was in great condition. My husband loved it! Definitely worth it.
5 I could not put this book down from the first sentence.  Whether or not you are a fan of Andre or a fan of tennis, this is just plain old incredibly entertaining and insightful reading.  I believe it can help a lot of people come to understand their own 'acting out' teenagers, and even young adults, who have suffered for one reason or another with their own angst.  I cannot express too much the admiration and affection I feel for Agassi, for his book, for his game, for his life, for the good that he has done and continues to do.Even if one does not care for biographies or auto-biograpies, this book is so amazingly readable that I would recommend it to anyone who loves a good book, a well written book, an exciting book.  Andre and his co-writer have done an amazing job turning all those years of life into 400 pages.  At the end of the book, I refused to read the last chapter, not wanting it to end.  But my husband wanted to read the book, so I finally relented and finished it.  But it lingers in my head, my heart, my life.  You cannot help but be moved and touched and affected by Agassi's life, his life experiences, his honesty, his tormented soul, and finally, finding his soul mate and his life with his beautiful wife and two gorgeous children.  And his school.  An accomplishment beyond words.  Thank you Andre!!
5 BEVERLY HILLS--"Open: An Autobiography," by Andre Agassi, is the true story of an American icon, who played tennis professionally from 1986 to 2006. Agassi was often ranked number one, he captured eight Grand Slam singles championships. Founder of the Andre Agassi Charitable Foundation, he has also raised more than $85 million for the Andre Agassi College Preparatory Academy for underprivileged children in Las Vegas, where he lives with his wife, Stefanie Graf, and their two children.Agassi was perhaps best known for his temper on the court, but when one reads his story you see a different side to the man who worked very hard for his success and was very grateful to his fans. For ardent and diehard fans of the tennis legend, this book will not be disappointing. Though his often angry behavior seemed a bit unreal to me at times, it's now clear. Agassi admits that he was a crystal meth user and at times it possibly clouded his judgment on the court and off. Many athletes are now coming out after their careers are over and admitting use of steroids and performance enhancing drugs. Though Agassi is in the small category of those admitting to outright illegal substances, but in doing so, he makes a point not to glorify it and even offers his advice to deter youth and any of his young fans from doing the same things he has in his past.In an excerpt from the book, Agassi admits with real honesty that when he was caught in 1997 with the drug in his system that he lied about it and the complaint was thrown out. Making no such excuses today for his behavior he candidly admits, "Then I come to the central lie of the letter I wrote to the commissioners at the time," Agassi writes. "I say that recently I drank accidentally from one of Slim's spiked sodas, unwittingly ingesting his drugs. I ask for understanding and leniency and hastily sign it: Sincerely." He adds today that he feels ashamed for the lie and made a decision never to ingest drugs again.Agassi told People magazine recently, "I can't speak to addiction, but a lot of people would say that if you're using anything as an escape, you have a problem." For many who read his book, they may find this statement to be a copout. That being said, I believe the great majority of readers will find the book brutally honest and extremely thought provoking. For parents who crave the limelight for their kids, whether it's sports or acting, they need to take a look at the life and story of a man who has spent his entire adult life in the spotlight and now feels more at home being a father and husband."Open" makes the reader think. It's an easy book to read but almost exhausting at times when Agassi explains in great detail what his life on the court and off was like and how he evaded many truths that he now faces both honestly and in a sober condition. This is a great book but not for everyone.
5 A lot of friends have recommended this book to me and as a reasonable tennis fan i was certainly interested. It is a very well written book and you almost can put it down wondering what is going to happen next. For tennis fans and non tennis fans alike covering one of the most interesting tennis players
5 Great book.  I always enjoyed watching Andre play so it was interesting to see how he really felt about HIS life.
5 This is one of the most entertaining books I've read in several years.  It's got everything: it's funny, sad, poignant, exciting, and dramatic.  The descriptions of Agassi's relationship with his father, a narcissistic man who forced his son to meet his own needs, was hard to read at times.  The descriptions of the matches and rivalries were very compelling.  And there's some (unintentionally?) funny and helpful advice about who we choose to marry.  This is a great book.
4 Ok, I am not a tennis fan but bought this book at book fair because it looked like an interesting read. Basically for the 1st 100 pages it just seemed like Agassi was complaining the whole time, ok he hated tennis I get it, ok his dad wasn't a nice guy it, he would stress out about his hair, I get that too.However, the more I read the more I realized I was really getting to know Agassi as a person. The writing flowed well and the book really wasn't just about tennis but really his life journey. I flew through the book and ended up with the impression that this was a very good biography.I would recommend this book to others because it is interesting, well written, and transcends tennis.
4 Andre Agassi's total honesty made this book a wonderful read.  I am not necessarily a tennis fan but will watch big matches throughout the years.  This book was an amazing look at the world of professional tennis.  Andre is a great man who has now devoted his life to helping children with his Agassi Academys.  I highly recommend this book!
5 The best sports book I've read in a long time.  Agassi is painfully honest and truthful in telling his story.  His humanity and insecurities are what make this champion a real human.  It is a fast read with little of the self-aggrandizment found in so many books of this nature.  The photo of the dust cover speaks for him.  The words inside speak directly to the heart and speak clearly.  If you limit yourself to a few &#34;sports&#34; books make this one number one on your list.
5 George F. Will once said we should all love sports because they ennoble our rawest passions.  Someone else said the one indispensable criterion of a life well lived is that it have been vivid.  This book validates both statements.Agassi has injected himself in the change-of-court chatter of every club tennis player in the world.  Much of the chatter pronounces judgment on his character.  "Bitter", "brave", "indomitable", "petty", "self-absorbed" "ungrateful",  "resilient", "sensitive", "inspiring", etc.  Agassi's version: the  tormented child of an abusive and controlling father finds  redemption and maturity through his sport and through love.  I, for one, buy it.But this is not a review of Agassi's character; rather, of his book.  Whatever you think of his opening his veins and bleeding before our eyes, it is a riveting tale, brilliantly told.  The book was written by J. R. Moehringer (credited by Agassi in the Acknowledgments).  Moehringer took hundreds of hours of  taped stream-of-consciousness and a pile of news clippings and fashioned  them into a novel-like, move-like drama.We who watched Andre step into a thousand thundering serves and return them on the rise wonder how he got that incredible skill.  Answer:  from age three, his father made him face a ball machine so powerful and intimidating that the little guy called it "the dragon."  He had to hit three thousand balls a day, a million balls a year, most of them aimed at his feet.  Recalls Malcolm Gladwell's observation in "Outliers"  that genius takes ten thousand hours.We find that he was utterly different from the devil-may-care, image-is-everything rebel we perceived, the kid who became, in Barbra Streisand's famous comment, "a Zen master". Depression, alcohol, and crystal meth took him from number one in the world to number 141.  He had to climb back through the humiliating route of playing satellite tournaments.Boris Becker bad-mouthed him to the press after beating him at Wimbledon. He was so driven that he could devote an entire Summer of Revenge  to the single goal of beating  Becker at the U.S. Open.  Spent from the effort, he understandably loses to Sampras in the final (`it's always Pete").  Yet he is devastated by the loss, cannot recover for months.Agassi is forthright in his judgments about the other players, and the judgments are mostly plausible.  Borg and Rafter, for example, are swell fellows, while Conners is a word that rhymes with "casserole".  He's a bit petty about Sampras, calling him a cheapskate, and withholding the full admiration that Sampras unquestionably deserves.  Too close, probably; too much emotion.  Federer, a  generation younger, he labels early as  the best ever.  "It's simple.  Most players have weaknesses. He hasn't got any."For tennis fans, this book will notch up your understanding and enjoyment of the sport.  For sports fans in general, and all students of character under stress, you can't do much better.
5 A real page turner; Andre has a great memory and ostensibly picked a great co-author to enrich an incredible story. It would be great if more autobiographies were this brutally honest. Agassi is the Mickey Rourke of tennis. Does that make McEnroe the Sean Penn of the game?
5 At first I thought, what a tortured narcissist. This book taught me a lot about the lifelong impact of over zealous parents of young athletes. Andre was fortunate to surround himself with good people. I hope other athletes subjected to parents living vicariously through their children are so fortunate. Nice job Andre and team on an excellent life story.
4 i really liked this book. it is great if you want to really understand the life of a high-performance athlete. andre recounts all of his struggles with tennis and fame and his father. he matured and grew tremendously during his career. he talks about his failed marriage with brooke shields but seems to blame most of it on her without accepting blame himself and without acknowleding a large measure of immaturity on his part. the book is powerful and will appeal to many people.
4 I really felt sorry for Andre it just goes to show that money doesnt buy hapinesss and what is shown on the outsideisnt neccessarily how real life is
5 Back in 1987, I decided to give up my crush on Boris Becker and have one on Andre Agassi instead (the irony of which only now is crystal clear to me).  As a child of the 80s, I admit that part of that was about the hair.Who knew that he was a Barry Manilow-listening, sport-hating, nearly bald, lonely perfectionist who despised playing tennis?  Image is everything, indeed.I don't follow tennis nearly as much as I used to, but I am still interested in learning more about people who were playing the sport back when I used to watch it.  However, this book sat on my shelf for about a month before I read it.  I didn't know what to expect, but I knew that he had dropped out of school and, not seeing any evidence of a co-author on the cover, the literary snob in me was skeptical as to the quality of the writing.It is quite lovely to be wrong, and to be BLOWN AWAY.  This is one of the most powerful, frightening, engaging, wonderful books I have read in years.  I was forced to look, head-on, at my own similar fears, and similar contradictions.  To see them honestly, terribly, and indeed lovingly explained like they are in this book was very powerful to me - people who constantly feel like they are battling against themselves.  I don't know if that was his intended purpose in writing it, but that's what I took away.Even if you're not a "sports person," you will get something out of this book.  Andre Agassi was an iconic figure during the formative years of many American people of our age (I'm one year younger than he is), and this is as much a story about our collective growing up as it is about tennis.  Highly, highly recommended.
5 I particularly enjoyed this book for the Wimbledon memories it brought back and the way it allowed me to re-live a by-gone era, with all the tennis greats of my generation. I also enjoyed Andre's scathing comments about Jimmy Conners, whom I watched play at Wimbledon when I was 12 years old: a player I found to be arrogant and egotistical. For me, the ending as the first part of the book perfectly portrays the focus and priorities in Andre's life. Tennis and his dogged and dramatic years are behind him, following which his life and true loves began: the beginning. Through this book, Andre Agassi humbles himself, which makes him accessible to the world as a real human being, instead of wrapping himself in the untouchable celebrity bubble I so detest. This book is moving and gripping. I loved it.
5 This was an exceptional book. Well written and captivating - I virtually couldn't put it down.Unselfconscious and without being over analytical, this book was written from the heart, with no holds barred.The revelations about his dislike for the game and the short period that he took recreational drugs were not the most revealing aspects of this book for me, despite their sensational nature.The shot-by-shot account of some many of his games is written in such a way that you get a completely different perspective of the player than you do when you are simply a spectator. Despite his huge popularity on and off the court, famous friends, and obvious wealth, the book portrays an insecure guy constantly fighting his demons and who never saw himself as the champion that the world did.I highly recommend this book.
5 This is a well written book full of wisdom earned through a lifetime of trials.  Amazing to see how Andre thought at each stage of his life.  Any mistakes he made along the way have been made up for 10000000 times over by his school.  I wish we all could say that our good deeds outweighed our bad by that margin like he can.
4 Andre Agassi has got to be the ultimate Alpha Male.  Women seem to have always been attracted to his looks (my wife), his sheer athleticism (my wife), and his rebel image (my wife).  Men see him as a modern day gladiator, the ultimate warrior who must rely on his own physical attributes while going into battle.  Agassi will sometimes be defeated, he will sometimes emerge victorious, but he will always be engaged in a bloody battle, and he will always rise from the ashes to go even further."Open" the recent autobiography by the Andre Agassi has already received a number of good reviews.  After reading his book, and finding it extraordinary for a number of reasons, I thought I would take this review in another direction.Early on Agassi proclaims that his life has been one of contradictions.  The very fact that he hates tennis, yet has been ranked number one in the world speaks volumes to this contradiction -- how can you be number one in the world doing something you hate?  When I first heard about this book and that it revealed Agassi's disdain for the game I thought perhaps we would find, tucked into a short paragraph, hidden away on a page deep in the book, a revealing confession that he secretly hated tennis.  I couldn't have been more wrong.  From the opening pages straight to the end, this man hated tennis.  Ironically that has to have been the best thing for a tennis loving world...because it was the sheer emotion of this contradiction that gave Agassi his personality, his character on and off the court--his, "this kid is different", image.  We couldn't place it at the time, but it's clear now...a rebel doesn't rebel against something he loves."Image is everything", the slogan imposed on Andre by Canon that he confesses he loathed at the time but somehow never understood...he still either misunderstands it or uses brilliantly... has us feel sorry for him that he was subjected to such a narcissistic image imposed on him by the big unfeeling company taking advantage of the nave rising star.  But let's face it; it was those early, ever present, Canon commercials that kicked off the Agassi Brand just as sure as it was the million balls a year his father forced him to "hit harder" in their back yard before he was sent away to the Nick Bollettieri Tennis Academy already in possession of his deadly forehand.  That image of an image launched a 1000's ships, sold a lot of cameras not to mention Nike shoes, and Oakley sun glasses.  But it was the image of a rebel, not the image of a new and rising star that earned him a new Dodge Viper from the President of Oakley when he appeared on the cover of Sports Illustrated wearing his thermonuclear shades.  It was exactly his image that was everything.Let's consider his list of victories- Brooke Shields (International Superstar), Barbara Streisand (International Superstar), Steffi Graff (International Superstar), Wimbledon, four Australian Opens, two US Opens, the French Open, and an Olympic Gold Medal. Each one of those conquests, alone, places more behind the shades than we will never see.  For instance, if as he claims, he can remember the details of each of his major professional matches, we are not just dealing with a man of huge athleticism we are dealing with a man of great intellectual powers.  How so in a man who dropped out of school in the ninth grade?  The amount of detail he places into some of the conversations he recalls is also spectacular, bordering on photographic- are we to believe his memory is that accurate?  Clearly Agassi has something going on upstairs.And what about his inner circle of friends.  He didn't choose an entourage of yes men, he chose those that would challenge, stretch and grow him both professionally and personally. He chose world class and he chose wisely.  Gil the athletic trainer at UNLV left his sweet job to become his personal trainer.  Nick Bollettieri, the owner of his tennis academy, not on the best of terms becomes his first professional coach. He convinced JP a successful evangelical minster to leave his flock and become his personal spiritual advisor. Later he convinces Brad a successful tennis player, writer, and coach to drop everything to become his coach in the twilight of his career.  Finally, he choses JR, a Pulitzer Prize winning author, to shadow write his autobiography.  On what planet does a Pulitzer Prize winner shadow write anything? And I've already mentioned the women he has loved -- they are not ordinary women -- they all saw something in him, behind those shades, something that we mere mortals can't even begin to fathom.I see something in Agassi as well...something that took him forty years to find himself. The image is real, the brand is real, and he is real. "Open" gives us a small glimpse inside his real door.  I for one thank him for taking the time to share what he found with us.
4 Although I catch the occassional Wimbledon or US Open Finals on TV, I'm not a big tennis follower or sports memoir reader - but growing up I always had a bit of a fascination with that rebellious, talented Agassi.But, this bare look at his life is far more revealing about what laid behind the personna he projected, the ups and downs of his life and the surprising world of professional tennis than I'd anticipated.There for all to see is his huge "Daddy Issues", driven by a father determined to make him a tennis star whether he wanted it or not, and his almost seemingly compulsive need to find more supportive substitute fathers to surround him. There's his incredible self-absorption - which makes him come across as both a brat and a driver of what helped him succeed in the odd way he did.  There's dirt dished about the players he played - who he liked, who he respected, who he didn't.  There's his love life - mostly glossed over - but still fascinating in his blatant honesty about how he felt about the women of his life.  And then, to top it off, there's the story of emotional and psychological toil which the world of a professional tennis player in the limelight brings.Written for him by a professional writer who wroteThe Tender Bar: A Memoir(another 'Daddy Issues' book - and whom Andre says he did try to get to take credit for writing on the cover), it all combines to make one heck of an "I don't want to stop turning the pages until the end" type of book.For tennis fans that followed his career he does stroll through his major matches with quick insights and recaps of them.  Though, for people like me, the most fascinating parts of these are the huge psychological games they played with one another far over the physcial matches themselves. I honestly never realized what a lonely internal game they're playing.If there's any down-side to this one, it's if you're a fan, you're going to find some things about Andre. like all humans, that's aren't very admirable. Plus, while he seems to have bared his soul and gained some insight over the years - he still never quite sees what becomes obvious. He says repeatedly he truly hates tennis. You know he believes it. But, what you see is that he hated it, the way someone hates a girl that they think might not love them back. It's a defensive protection against failure.  Either way he played the game and this book, as he would say, no holds barred to the finish line.Bottom Line:  A fascinating read that I think you'll find yourself thinking and talking about long after you put it down.
3 Like Agassi himself, I am not a sports fan, so before I read this book I had only a vague impression of him as a somewhat erratic and temperamental celebrity, which to me meant that he was boring and not worth paying any attention to. (Unlike many people, I am not fascinated by celebrities. I would go out of my way NOT to read the latest news about Ashton Kutcher or Angelina Jolie.)For about the first two thirds of this book I thought it was one of the best books I'd ever read about one of the most interesting and surprisingly likeable people I'd ever come across.  Here was a brilliantly gifted man whose gifts had been so twisted by forces beyond his control that they were tearing him apart. He was rich, famous, powerful, adored and despised by millions of people all over the world, but he was miserable. Underneath the glamor and the drama, he was an unhappy, frustrated, insecure, lonely schmuck just like me, and in this book he was letting the whole world see how ordinary he really is.In other words, he was REAL. He was a PERSON, not just a celebrity. All celebrities are schmucks inside, but they never let it show. Agassi was letting us see inside the shell the others don't even know they're hiding behind, letting us see the flawed, petty, ugly little person inside.Kutcher is just a celebrity. Jolie is just a celebrity. Obama is just a celebrity. ANYBODY who has ever been interviewed on national television, ANYBODY who has ever met Oprah Winfrey is just a celebrity, NOT a person. The thousands of people who dominate the world's consciousness are just celebrities - but THIS man in THIS book was different. He looked like a celebrity on the outside, but inside he was a person, like me.That impression had not completely died by the time I finished the book, but it had been attenuated - ironically by one of the book's strengths: its mastery in turning a chaotic and turbulent life into a coherent, engaging narrative.By the time things finally started to straighten out in Agassi's life, he had become for me more like a character in a novel than like a real, flesh-and-blood human being. His story had become TOO well told, too well ordered and almost predictable. By the time he discovered the goodness inside himself, the generosity, kindness, warmth and compassion hidden inside the brittle, tortured shell, he seemed like he belonged in Oprah's world, no longer in mine.He started the book as a person like me, but by the end he had BECOME just another celebrity, with just another ideal celebrity marriage, devoted to his celebrity wife and his cute celebrity kids. He was just another big-hearted celebrity with his celebrity charitable foundation, letting him humbly but ostentatiously "give something back" to the little people. He had become boring.So the book deserves credit for giving us access to this man's story, and the man himself deserves credit for being willing to be so open about his life (a perfect title, by the way), but it ends up being a disappointment, both the book and the man.
5 Agassi was always an enigma during his career.  Seemingly brilliant tennis player, under-acheiver, tortured soul and sex symbol rolled into one.  As he progressed in his career, he seemed to grow up before our eyes. The book captures all of these dimensions of his life to perfection...and more.The progression of his life throughout the book was fast-paced, fascinating and, most importantly, honest and real.  Though a play on words, the title of the book is perfect.  Rare is a self-portrayal as critical and incisive.  Andre exposes events devoid of any hint of the self-importance one would normally expect from a celebrity of his stature.  In a word, his presentation of his life is humble.The scenes are described in stunning color, emotion and presented startlingly clear mental images.  He also captures many of the scenes with hilarity (the scene when Andre's father meets Stephanie's father is worth the price of the book).  Both haircut scenes (his and his son's later in the book) were comical.Perhaps most interesting to many is his incredible portrayal of the mentally and physically grueling nature of the tour.  I got the feel of almost actually being there when he describes the actual games.  His explanation of the Sampras rivalry was priceless.  His descriptions and views on other players, particularly Connors, like most of the book, gives the sense of being there.  He seemed fair in his assessments and, like his tennis game, stayed just inside the line.  The relationship with Shields was presented clearly without being critical.  One gets no sense that she was at fault for the divorce or a bad person, generally.  A difficult line to walk for anyone in such circumstances, but he managed it artfully.  The description of his run-in with meth could not have been more forthcoming and, to me, was courageous given the hysteria surrounding the issue in America.I was sometimes surprised by the almost perfect diction, grammer and prose used in some scenes given the absence of a co-writer.  After all, although Andre comes across as intelligent in television interviews, he has only a self-proclaimed 9th grade education.  Regardless, he finally fessed up at the end that one of the better writers in this genre assisted.  This, of course, is to be expected and does nothing to detract from the genuineness of the book.My only complaint is that the book was not longer and needed more explanation for why he continually reminded the reader of his paradoxical "hate" for tennis.  The words "hate tennis" appear 17 times in the book.  Generally, it's just another person who he is letting in on his dirty little secret. I think 2 or 3 times as a shock to the reader would have sufficed. It seems his writing helper could have steered him clear of this overuse.  Overall, thIs was a minor nuisance and has the nominal value of reminding the reader of his emotions at the time.The real question was why he hates tennis.  The answer to the question seems apparent in that he was forced to play from an early age and into his his early teens.  His father was cast in an unfavorable light as the slave master, but it is apparent that he has now moved beyond that difficulty.  Anyone generally hates something that is forced upon them.  Regardless, it is unfortunate that he didn't explore the why a little deeper.Regardless, this is one of those reads that you just want to go on because it's so well done.  Some might be put off by the rather lengthy descriptions of the games, but for me, reliving some of those moments in such dramatic detail was awesome, particularly since he describes his emotions in the moment so perfectly.I believe this is one of the more unique, well-written and inspirational books of its kind.  It's an absolute must read for Agassi and sports fans, generally.  Beyond that, almost anyone should read this as a testament to the ability to overcome the demons in one's soul and life difficulties generally.Agassi presents such an honest portrayal that my estimation of him as a person increased immeasurably. Finally, the success of his foundation and work on his charter school as described were inspirational.  I was never a huge Agassi fan, but I am now.
5 So well written and brave to expose ones' flaws. I loved to watch him play tennis but love the person he is even more
4 ANDRE AGASSI'S BOOK IS A MUST READ FOR PARENTS WHO WANT AND EXPECT THEIR CHILDREN TO BE ULTRA SUCCESSFUL PROFESSIONAL ATHLETES. THIS IS A TRUTHFUL AND HEART WRENCHING AUTOBIOGRAPHY. I RESPECT ANDRE'S PHILANTHROPY FOR EDUCATIONG CHILDREN IN LAS VEGAS. GOOD WORK!!
4 Like a great tennis match itself this book has it all, the highs, lows, ups, downs, tension, disappointment and victory!I wasn't much of an Agassi fan before reading his book and I'm not much more of one now, but that's not to say it isn't a great book. Honesty is one of those rare virtues that hurts and heals. I enjoyed and appreciated the way he made no bones about writing it very much from his perspective of the world, opponents, family and of course tennis whether you agree with him or not.There was lots I liked about his reflections but for me personally I think he plays the victim far too much. Make no mistake he had a tough childhood but so have many others. He however seems to blame his bad choices because he was a victim rather than taking responsibilty. Dito for his marriage and his tennis career. I get the feeling he embelishes the "I hate tennis" to be sensational. Yeah, I can imagine tennis wasn't always pleasant for him (is any job on the planet great 100% of the time?) but then why did he carry on playing until 36? He certainly didn't need the money. And why does he still continue to play exhibition tennis matches to this day? Just some of the questions and thoughts I had while reading it.A good read about life, love and tennis!
5 What an amazingly coherent and "open" memoir! Riveting from the very beginning, this honest and in-depth look at one of tennis's all-time champions gives the reader a rare inside view of the real truth about what it takes to win, to be a champion, to be the "best." Agassi pours his life and his heart into these pages. And seemingly none of his personal and professional failures is left out. Why did I care about this mostly confused and a bit nutty guy? Because I love tennis and its ferocious battleground. And I loved watching his game over the years. I also love his personal candor and integrity, his gritty survivalist nature, and I love how he evolves and matures to become who he is today. The reader of this memoir doesn't have to love tennis, though, or even Andre Agassi. This memoir stands up on its own as a terrifically moving story of struggle, self revelation, and ultimately, redemption.
4 This was a fascinating account of one of the world's best tennis players. At times I felt like shaking him but the book was full of anecdotes and it certainly made me want to keep turning the pages. An interesting insight into the pain elite athletes put themselves through and I particularly enjoyed reading about his relationship with Steffi Graf and how they each understood perfectly what the other was going through.
4 For me, Andre Agassi's book is most memorable because we learn that the "real" Agassi is not the Agassi we thought we knew. The disjunction between public image and private reality is rarely explored in an autobiography, and Agassi (and his ghost-writer) have gone into areas usually untouched by people on the public stage. Agassi was, in many ways, an abused and neglected child. He did not know who he was; he was hardly the "rebel" or "enfant terrible" that the press made him out to be. His wrenching struggles and his personal growth took place despite the efforts of the media to tell a pat story about him, and they occurred away from the tennis court.Agassi's frankness about himself separates this book from most autobiographies. It's not really a book about tennis but a book about how to become a human being. In fact, with a few exceptions, the accounts of Grand Slam matches are not very enlightening to the amateur tennis player on the technical level. But the accounts of Agassi's depression, his self-doubt, and his hatred for tennis are unforgettable.This book could, however, have been 50 to 100 pages shorter without losing its impact.
5 Andre Agassi's story is perfect. You do not have to be a tennis fan to appreciate what he has gone through.
5 What a ride, what a read.  I was slow to read this work as I have been a big fan for Andre's career and did not want to spoil the "image" I had of Andre. My "pals" teased me when they read reviews about the tough times this man has been through with drugs and relationships as if to mock my worship of Andre.  "Hey I read your tennis star took drugs"  People sometimes smile at the famous who go through tough times and make mistakes.  I did not want to tarnish the image I had of Andre, which turned out to be mostly lies created by the media.  I appreciate the man and the tennis player more now after having read this account.  What a strong person to be able to open himself up as he did.  Fitting title for the book.
5 Agassi has certainly lived an amazing life, hasn't he?  And the man who won the career Grand Slam can add another achievement to his remarkable record:  a great book, by any standard.I cannot think of a better sports autobiography.  A must read.
5 In a perfect world this book would be in every school and community library in the USA. This book deserves 10 stars! It should be required reading for any jock in middle school or high school.  He was an excellent tennis player but the main story is the challenges he faced in becoming a man.  Andre took a few dead end paths in his life but at a relative early age he has developed into a very "Big Man", almost as big as Gil!  Michener in his book, "Sports in America" said that professional sports are the "bread and circuses" of modern America.  Andre was very successful in tennis but has moved on to a much more important aspect of our society, education of youth.  No person can steal your education! Andre did not chose tennis as his career.  It was chosen for him by his father at an extremely early age. Growing up in Las Vegas, NV, is not exactly the ideal city to develop true and lasting values.  But Andre's biggest triumph was he found lasting high values, real love, and a commitment to make life better for others.  He has become an inspiration to others, on and off the tennis court.  Andre will become 40 years old in less than two weeks.  The years 40 to 42 are the toughest years in any person's life, especially a man'a life.  Ask any qualified astrologer and they can tell you why this is such a significant tiime in a person's life.  Andre has done more in this life already than many people would do in five lifetimes.  One of the most important things he did was his gift of honesty in this excellent book.  Wishing he and all of his loved ones much love.
5 I found this tennis pro's autobiography to be totally engrossing, and I liked him all the way through.  Written with the help of Pulitzer Prize winning journalist and author J.R. Moehringer, the book is appropriately named.  Agassi is open about the whole ball of wax:  how he hated tennis from the get-go but was pushed into it by an overbearing father; how he was brash and rebellious, went for style over substance, wore wigs, used drugs.  He tells the story of his lost childhood and the inside story of his life as a tennis professional/celebrity with all its ups and down.  In the midst of it all, he began to grow up, to find his balance and assert his own being. He became a disciplined champion, a husband, a father, a philanthropist.  He became a person willing to tell his story with exceptional candor.  What a gift!
5 I would give this book 10 stars if I could.  I haven't enjoyed a book this much in years.  I couldn't put it down.  I didn't want to finish it because it felt like I was losing a friend.  I love that it had a happy ending (or should I say beginning?) with his happy marriage, two beautiful children, and his school.  I love the irony of his dedication to education when he hated school himself.  I love that he is giving back to the community by founding and building the school.  All throughout the book I was on a roller coaster between liking, pitying, disliking and indifference of Mr. Aggasi.  Then I ended up loving him.  The book is very well written with humor and with life.  It was sad at times, but enjoyable to see the scared little boy finally grow and mature into a good man.  All of his ups and downs in his life made for a story hard to resist and difficult to put down.  Thank you Mr. Agassi for such a good read!
5 Listening to this autobiography on CD (15 of them!) was addictive.  It took several weeks, however, as I felt that the language and some situations involved in the book were inappropriate for my children to hear.  I wish there was a PG version that I could share with my children, however, as this book offers excellent insight into what it is like to live the life not only of a tennis-pro, but of a celebrity.  I especially loved the growth that Andre experienced, mentally, throughout his career, and how he realized that it is only when you reach outside of your own world to serve others, that meaning can be found.  Match-play descriptions were exciting.  Andre's entire story, fascinating.  Highly recommended, not just for tennis fans.
5 I listened to Andre's story in the car via my i-phone.  What a treat to hear the dialog spoken.  I frequently found myself laughing out loud at some irreverent image.  My heart ached to think of the physical and mental brutality his Father dosed out. While I don't recall his every raising a hand to Andre', he used his abusive power to force Andre in the the equivalent of hard labor while he was just a small child. Andre tries so hard to please him, yet is never rewarded with even a kind word. His Mother shares the guilt for standing by. The story is mesmerizing and I didn't want it to end.
5 Reading the book, I felt on most pages that Agassi is eager to provoke controversy and ensure a blockbuster of a book. I don't know if this deserves some kudos: he did this successfully even without alluding to sex, but, among other "shots," at the expense of Pete Sampras and his repeated insistence that he hates tennis (although his arguments supporting this claim remains not solid to me). Other Agassi factoids:--No underwear while playing tennis.--Snorted meth.--Courted Steffi Graf with flowers--Wore wigs, and was worrying about it on some matches.--Hits Pete Sampras for being a bad tipper--Mad jealous when Brooke Shields licked matt leblanc's hands for a Friends episode (she was very excited to get this guesting job).--also 'sufficiently' discussed "affairs" with other celebrities (such as Streisand).These could be cheap techniques, some would say, but I enjoyed it. And no one can deny however the book's fantastic facility in describing the tennis games, drills, and struggles in-game. They are the best Ive ever read for tennis, even in comparison to the long newspaper articles that come up in SI or the sports sections, during great grandslam seasons.There is also the remarkable illustration that sportsmen somehow are not very different from showmen who feels proud to put on a "good show."There is a section where Agassi explains how inside a training room after a game, his opponent and him terribly fatigued and injured, lying on a bed beside each other, one reached out and they held hands with am opponent to marvel at the replay telecast, and praises accorded to their game in the evening news.Credit indeed must go to JR Moehringer (a collaborator) for making a cohesive book out of these courting-controversy factoids, and writing Awwwww-generating sentences, like this one of Agassi referring to his future wife Stafanie "Steffie" Graf"She looked, somehow, as if she smelled good. Also, as if she was good, fundamentally, essentially, inherently good, brimming with moral rectitude and a kind of dignity that doesn't exist anymore."Awwwww
5 I am just a few years older than Andre Agassi, and I played tennis as a child and then for my high school.  But I hadn't actually cared at all about tennis, or even thought about it, in more than 20 years until I picked up this book.Holy smokes!!!Because I was living in New York City in the late summer of 2006, I casually caught Agassi's farewell speech at the U.S. Open that year.  Pretty much everyone in the stadium seemed to be crying, and I was too, in front of my TV.  I remember thinking what a class act Agassi had become, as I remembered flickeringly his "rock 'n roll"-styled profile at the beginning of his career.Holy smokes!!!If you want to know who Andre Agassi WAS and IS, I simply can't recommend this book enough.  I won't give anything away, but I read this book IN ONE SITTING.  It fascinated me.  I teach literature for a living, and I can't remember a single autobiography that I'd read previously that seemed so direct, relevant, fresh, and brutally honest.I have no idea why Agassi chose to write this gut-spilling book (pretty much the whole world loved the guy already--in terms of fan appeal I suspect he's the world's No. 1 favorite retired player, male or female), but I truly was moved by, and impressed by, his book.  I have already shared it with my wife, and I have urged other family members to read it, none of these people being particular tennis fans.Also, prompted by this book (thanks, Andre!), I got myself out on a tennis court twice in the last few days, a feat I don't think I've done in more than two decades.  I did it because Agassi made the sport of tennis sound so cool and fierce.If you read this book, I'm pretty sure you'll learn a lot and enjoy it. You will quite likely look at professional tennis, and Agassi, in a whole new light.
5 My daughter asked for this book for Christmas since she was one of the young college students (back in 1991) who was enamored of Andre's image and maintained her interest in him until his retirement.  When the book arrived, I started leafing through it.  Every time I intended to read a short section, I couldn't put it down.  It was fascinating because the real story was so different from what I had always assumed about Andre.  He provided tremendous insights into not only his personal struggles (hating tennis from the time he was a youngster forced to play) but also the world of professional tennis and the other players.  I have highly recommended the book to my brother, who has been an official at the U.S. Open tennis tournament for over 25 years.  I'm sure he'll find things he didn't know too.
5 Sports autobiographies tend to follow a set pattern.  The author rehashes the highlights of their career, maybe talks briefly about a crisis of confidence or a clash with the coach, gets a few teammates to chip in and reassure us that the writer was a terrific person.  Open is completely different.  It's a superb autobiography in its own right, let alone within the sports genre.  Agassi exposes himself with raw candour and doesn't always come across well.  He is frank about his flaws, his tantrums and his inner demons.  However he is also immensely loyal to his friends and inspires tremendous loyalty in return.  He is courageous, generous, honest and a hopeless romantic.  I relished every page of this book.Agassi's father was a tyrant who was determined from the day that Agassi was born that he would end up as the world's number one tennis player.  Agassi was given no choice in the  matter.  His life was not his own to make decisions about.  When he did get to the age when he could conceivably have walked away from tennis, he was in a position where it was the only thing that he was even remotely qualified for.  At times reading this I was reminded ofBattle Hymn of the Tiger Motherand the way that parents can impose their values and plans onto their children.  Agassi hated tennis for almost all of the time that he was playing it.  Moreover, he never really learned to function as an adult - needing several people in his life to direct him and support him at all times.His life is a fascinating mix of good decisions and bad decisions.  Finding the right people to steer him in the right direction.  Almost undoing it all by adopting an unprofessional attitude.  Getting married despite serious misgivings.  Later finding someone who genuinely seems to "complete" him.  At times his propensity for self-sabotage seems overwhelming.  But thankfully, it's a happy ending.A fascinating, thought provoking, absorbing book.  Tennis fan or not, you should read it.
5 A brutally honest autobiography where the author tells of his hatred - yes - that's right - of the game that earned him millions. His feelings of failure when losing his games, his dislike of his overbearing father, his brief marriage to Brooke Shields, and his blissfully happy marriage to Steffi Graph.Not being a tennis lover I did not expect to be exactly enthralled by this book, but found I couldn't put it down. Highly recommended.
2 I wanted to like this book very much.  His story is interesting, his unappreciation of his mega career is not.  Yes, I get it, he HATES most everything about his career.  From his youth, he hated school, hated junior tournaments, hated his life, hated practice.  As he gets older, he hates fame, continues to hate tennis.  He conveniently leaves out mention of the wealth, power and fame tennis bestowes upon him.  How is that?  Yep, he hates being married to Brooke Shields, poor guy.  He hates how tennis ruins his body.  Whoa is the life of fame, popularity, and riches.  If I had a dollar for everytime the word hate is used in this biography, I'd have a good bit toward retirement.  Don't believe me?  Count the times he uses "I hate" or "I hated" while you read this book.  I do understand Andre has been unhappy, but a little perspective and a bit more appreciation for his money, fame, power and avid fans would have been appreciated.
5 I have been a Agassi fan since childhood and always cherished the rivalry which he had with Sampras.Equally insightful has been information which Mr Agassi shared about his crusts and troughs in career, his journey full of bumps which we fans never could imagine.What I take out from this book is the role of mental toughness and positive habit forming techniques required for optimum performance in any trade or profession to be pursued.Very motivating book , powerful enough to keep you glued till the end with a consistently engaging quality.
5 I was captivated by the audio version of the book  - listened to all 15+ hours in a matter of days (great companion for gardening, driving, cleaning, etc!).  It's a very well-written inside look at Agassi the person.  What a profound  surprise to find the I, along with millions of other Agassi fans, had so totally misunderstood him.  It'd be an inspiring story and good read even as a fictional story of prodigy learning life lessons the hard way.  The added bonus - it's a true story about an intriguing tennis icon and a court-side view of life on the tennis circuit.  I was particularly impressed with Agassi's ability to prevail and make sense of his life.  I also found Agassi's tremendous loyalty to his family and inner circle, profound.  (My only question, Andre, why add the bit about Sampras being lousy tipper?  You'd already convinced me you weren't like that.)  I look forward to his next book as the enlightened Andre carves his philantrophic niche.
5 A book about life's struggles, about how to deal with what life throws at you.About figuring out how to grow up, and at the same time rebelling against life when you can.How to live life on the road, be the best at a sport you are really great at - but that you didn't choose to play, and about how to come out at the other end and be happy.There are lots of insights (into Agassi's mind, and in general).I started the book knowing only "great tennis player, married to Steffi Graf".. which after reading I need to turn into Stefanie Graf I guess.There is wisdom, drive, life lessons, drama, luck, love, determination, stubbornness, belief, respect and humor.Agassi assembled a great team of people around him who helped him along the way, and each of them brought something unique to his life, and to the book.Very hard to put down. I think it will make me love watching tennis even more.It also make me want to do things - good things, great things -  with my life and it gives me the hope that with hard work that will be possible as well.So in that sense I'd say it's very inspirational book as well.Highly recommended.
5 I did not know the life story of Andre Agassi. Now that I do I wish that I could meet him and thank him for sharing himself in such a selfless and generous manner. His story has touched me so deeply I am unable to put into words. What I can say is that it is the ultimate story of hope and self discovery. Every kid that struggles and thinks life cannot get better needs to read this. It's a page turner from the very first paragraph. Great praise for such a fine work.
5 I never was much of a Agassi fan, but after reading this book, I hold him in higher esteem that I did previously.  Reading about his relationship with his father, his hatred of tennis, and how the media treated him makes me wish that I could go back and watch him in his prime, with my media-based biases of him stripped away.  He obviously was a great talent, but he seems to be the first to admit that he was an underachiever, only to realize his full potential towards the end of his career when his body was starting to give out.  Although most of the sensational reveals in this book have already been covered by mainstream media, I would highly recommend this book to everyone, regardless of if they are a sports fan or not.
5 No spoilers:This book is amazing and a must read not just for Andre and tennis and sports fans, but anyone interested in the pressure of the world of professional sports
5 I loved to watch Andre play and now I have loved reading this book.  Andre is funny, honest, open and very brave.  I found myself pulling for him in his low times and rooting for him in his victory! I loved how open he was about family, schooling, coaches, players and then his life. I had trouble putting this book down. I love the things he has come up with. "Tennis uses the language of life. Advantage, service, fault, break, love."
5 I loved this book! I grew up watching him play, and Steffi too. It's amazing to now learn what was really going on inside his mind. Loved this book!!
5 I stumbled upon this book by accident. My library had the paperback edition on sale for $1.00 and I dug in. In the beginning I thought I wouldn't last long reading it, but this book is so brutally honest and compelling it is hard to put down. Andre never holds back and never seems to varnish over the truth . I came away feeling a new appreciation for his career, his achievements, and his triumph over adversity.  I admire his courage in being so unabashedly honest about his failures . I found it very inspirational and you will too.
5 I usually don't read auto-biographies from sports players/athletes because I often find them focusing on the physical side and less on the mental and introspective aspects. Sports bios are usually a bit shallow to me. JMHO.  However, "Open" by Andre Agassi has depth, insight, honesty, and introspective details.  He was open about himself.His Secret:Agassi honestly noted several times in this book that he hated tennis.  Not dislike, nor disdain, not bored by his life of tennis.  But hate.  He hated it.  Agassi noted he "lied through his teeth" when talking to reporters and in particular in an interview on the Charlie Rose show about how he "loved tennis so much he used to go to bed with his rackets"  when he was a child.  Understandably, if he told the truth about his feelings toward tennis it would have been hyped and likely turned into media-created hoopla.  Better to tell journalists and reporters those safe middle-ground answers because they thrive on controversy that they often create themselves.  Tennis is the utmost of individual sports.  He notes it can be a lonely game.Agassi made some good friends and developed solid relationships with them and most of his long term mates were made before he made it big in tennis.  He does seem, like a regular simple guy.  His professional and personal relationship with Gil is noted throughout most of the book.The "Image is Everything" slogan came from marketing and the advertising company used Agassi and crafted an inaccurate caricature of him.Agassi described losing his hair rapidly by the time he was 21. This led him to wear toupees on the court and hiding this thinning by having long hair, highlighting, and creatively placed hair pieces.Agassi's relationship and marriage to Brooke Shields was interesting because as only a casual follower of the actress I've correctly or incorrectly perceived Brooke Shields as enigmatic.  Athletes and actresses.  The physical and mental, mixing.  I learned that Shields majored in French Literature.  Andre, being a tennis prodigy and attending a Tennis Academy in his teens in Florida left high school early and never liked being in the classroom.  School is not everyone's bag of bones.Agassi also was candid about his experimentation with a drug while under the scrutiny of drug testing that almost all professional athletes face.  He noted the time when he decided to use a drug (meth) that was prohibited by the major tennis organization and tested positive for it in a routine random test.  After testing positive and receiving a letter of his suspension  Agassi appealed it, and lied by stating  that he accidently ingested because it was in a cup of coffee he drank.  One of Agassi old friend's  who did some logistic work with him was a Meth user and casually introduced Agassi to Crystal Meth.  After taking the Meth he did the usual cleaning of the house by mopping, wiping, cleaning it and staying up for 2 days  The tennis organization believed Agassi's story and never suspended him. :)  This is  a humorous and innocent story, and I respect Agassi for telling us this in the book.  He could have avoided mentioning it.After playing tennis from the age of 6 to 36 - that's thirty years - Agassi now gets up very painfully and slow in the morning afterjumping up and down, and rapid stops have affected his spine and knees.Here in this auto-bio, Andre Agassi was open.  It's appreciated.
5 Andr&eacute; Agassi's autobiography might at first seem to be merely another in a long line of collaborative celebrity memoirs. The co-author, whom Agassi gracefully acknowledges in an afterword, is J.R. Moehringer, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and memoirist. Whatever their exact collaboration might be, they have produced an altogether remarkable book, far more interesting than the usual ghostwritten "tell-all." (This is not to deny the sensational revelations, as serious as his drug use and his lies to the ATP about it, and trivial as Agassi's admission that he wore a hairpiece from his teen years to conceal his premature baldness, that will satisfy readers in search of the dirt.)"Open" is written entirely in present tense. This is a masterstroke, as Agassi's thoughts and experiences unfold before the reader's eyes in all their immediacy. Even more than in most autobiographies "Open's" single-minded focus on one person reduces all others to bit players--although luminaries such as Barbra Streisand, Pete Sampras, Brooke Shields (Agassi's first wife) and Steffi Graf (his second), among others, are to be found in these pages they, even Graf, the love of Agassi's life, are only significant insofar as they affect the course of it. What keeps the book from being unbearably narcissistic is its author's utter willingness to lay himself bare, no matter how unflattering the light in which he is cast. Agassi recounts in excruciating detail his unhappy childhood, trained practically from birth by a dictatorial, borderline abusive father determined to turn his son into a great tennis player (there are obvious parallels with the Williams sisters patriarch here), escaping from his clutches into the hands of the equally unyielding Nick Bollettieri and his tennis academy, described by the author as "a glorified prison camp."  What is especially remarkable about "Open" is that even the most horrendous of Agassi's experiences never seems recounted for effect--he never asks for the reader's pity. His hard-won struggles, both on the court and in his head, seem all the greater because of the pitiless light Agassi turns on himself. The descriptions of his big matches put the reader right in the middle of the action. "Open" has it all: the excitement, the melodrama, the gossip, but most of all a tale of hard-won redemption that grips the reader's imagination and touches the heart.
5 Who knew what hid behind his seeming playboy demeanor?  This generous autobiography is filled with a page turning intensity, laying out his deemons both physical and emotional, and how they weigh equally when facing an opponent across a net.  Late in the book, he observes that the net which should separate players actually weaves them together.  His reconstruction of many of the over 1000 matches hes participated in makes for fascinating reading, whether tennis is your game or not (it used to be mine, so technical details rang true).  His personal and professional l ives, so closely intertwined, are described in amazing detail, and the finale, his pride in his family and in the charter school he founded, flesh out a person of amazing depth and character.  Highly Highly recommended.
5 Agassi's autobiography is a very rare and deeply touching look into the life of a sports prodigy.  There isn't one truly normal guy out there playing tennis and ranked somewhere in the top 100, and you will shortly see that Andre Agassi wouldn't have been the first.When Agassi burst onto the tennis scene in the mid 80s, his life could already have been said to have been wrecked; traumatized by his often irrational and dislocating upbringing, forced to play tennis by his severe father, virtually imprisoned in the Bollitieri Academy and more or less pimped for personal gain by Nick Bollitieri himself, he found himself with an 8th grade education, a pro at 16, hating the one thing he was capable of doing well, and thrust into a life of uncertainty, nagging self-doubt, exploited by sponsors and advertisers, with only a few friends and hangers-on for a support network, all with predictable consequences.Agassi tells his personal story with seemingly brutal honesty, and pretty much anyone interested in his story already knows about the controversial bits, most particularly about the alcohol and drug abuse; but these were really merely symptoms of the deeper pain and emptiness Agassi describes.  The interesting part about his career wasn't even so much about his meteoric rise and phenomenal youthful talent, but about how he found the inner strength and heart to come back so powerfully, finding his own center in so doing, and finding a reason to play and work for his own goals, rather than being forced to do so to please others.Sports bios are naturally lead-heavy with point-by-point and game-by-game detailed descriptions of important points, and this is no exception; for a 21-year career and over 1000 matches, that's a lot of reading, although it is grippingly written and deeply involves the reader in the games, matches where presumably the interested reader already knows the ending anyway.  So, yes, there are a lot of pages devoted to flying here to play him, and flying there to play the other guy, and flying on and on; in a way, this repetition does kind of give one the idea of the sheer whirl, the never-ending treadmill that is the tennis tour, with heartache and injuries and losses and training.But unlike so many sports bios, Agassi and his ghostwriter give you a glimpse into how Agassi himself thought of himself and his life, and how he turned himself from a phenom to a quitter and tanker in a slow-motion rejection of his own life and descent into self-destruction, and how finally he really did turn into a champion, not only on the court but more importantly in life.Those interested in tennis in general and Andre Agassi in particular will find this to be a really outstanding and inspirational read.
5 Tennis history at its best. Agassi is turning his soul inside out and we laugh and cry with him.  Is a must for tennis fans.
5 Yet another reminder, as if we need it, that at best we have a clue about what is going on in the lives of those closest to us, but beyond that, we know nothing.I can think of no better metaphor for that than this remarkable man's hair.  Who cares?  Reality is we would have.  What a waste of resources -- his and ours.Read it.
5 What a fantastic book!  I have never followed Andre Agassi, or tennis for that matter, but heard this book got wonderful reviews so I thought I'd check it out.  I had no idea how engaging this incredible book would be.  I could not put it down!  It is an extremely well written (no typos I might add), completely engaging, and openly honest account of Mr. Agassi's life.  This is not just another celebrity autobiography written for monetary gains.  It is the emotionally poignant tale of one man's trials and tribulations spanning from childhood to manhood.  This is not a story of fame; it is a story of forgiveness, learning from the past, discovering one's self, and moving forward in life.  If you want to read about an OPEN celebrity who is not afraid of being real and raw, READ THIS.  I cannot recommend this book enough - it is a must read.
4 As the 586th reviewer, I will take the liberty of selecting the bits I find most strange about the book and Agassi's life, in no order:a) His friends are on his payroll. Agassi doesn't remark on this, but he apparently has few or no friends outside his immediate circle. Brooke Shields tells him he is a "rose surrounded by thorns," and she probably tells the truth.b) Like many people successful from a very early age, Agassi has very little familiarity with how the rest of us live. Playing in the challenger circuit, and picking up balls and adjusting the  scoreboard, doesn't sound like quite the hell Agassi imagines.c) It's hard to know why he married Brooke Shields, but there is a certain Billy Joel-uptown girl vibe. She introduced him to new foods and restaurants, museums, movies, etc. But that's not enough to build a relationship, and in any case he rarely saw Brooke in the year before they married.d) Agassi has next to nothing to say about his competitors on tour. The most he says about Jim Courier, who he met at the age of 14, is that he plays the drums. Agassi lives in a bubble surrounded by his employees, and nobody else merits a mention.e) Agassi is a complete fame hound. An entire chapter recounts his trip to South Africa to meet Nelson Mandela. He adores the spotlight and other celebrities, which is good, because he apparently spends much of his retirement at celebrity fundraisers.Agassi is a contradictory character. He loves the attention and fame, but he's also sensitive and shy and not a cutthroat competitor. That makes him a more sympathetic character than Tiger Woods or Pete Sampras, but more infuriating too. Agassi is more Vegas than he's willing to let on, with a little bit of televangelist thrown in. His mother thinks he missed his calling as a preacher, and she's probably not far off.
5 Imagine doing something you absolutely hated, for practically all of your life; yet that one thing you hated, you did better than just about anyone else who ever lived.  In the case of Andre Agassi---one of the greatest tennis players who ever lived---he hated his professsion.  That is an amazing revelation; after all, tennis is a game played by millions of people nowhere near as skilled as Agassi, and most of them probably love it.  For them, tennis is an escape from the daily grind; for Agassi, it was the daily grind.Yet he excelled, driven by an intense desire to placate his overbearing father, who decided very early in his son's life that he was going to be a tennis player, like it or not.  Of course, the younger Agassi won with remarkable consistency throughout his career, and achieved fame and fortune few have ever experienced, in any profession.  Imagine how good he may have been had he really enjoyed playing tennis.Naturally, when he was becoming a super star, he was thrust into the public spotlight as the iconoclastic bad boy of tennis.  It seemed the whole world loved him, and it seemed he enjoyed playing the game he really despised.  Yet, his engaging personality concealed his inner thoughts; clearly, few people knew the real Andre Agassi, until now.In a remarkably candid life story, Andre Agassi reaches into the depth of his soul to reflect back on his unsettling childhood, his rise to prominence in the world of tennis, his Hollywood romance, his bout with crystal meth, and finally, his happy marriage.  This is a man who came to terms with the people and events who shaped his life, and is sharing his honest perspective with a measure of wit and candor that is rarely seen by anyone these days.  This is not your typical self-absorbed prima donna spouting off about how wonderful he is, nor complaining about things that didn't quite go his way.Agassi's the real deal, and his story is one worth reading, whether you're a fan of tennis or not.  It really is quite a remarkable story of triumph over adversity, and a reminder that life in the public eye can be difficult for a private person; and things are not always what they seem to be.  Now we know.
5 Thanks Andre for writing this book.  I enjoyed it so much.  The sequences were you wrote about individual matches made me feel that I was both sitting in the stands and right on the court with you.  Much was made of your reveals about drugs and hating tennis, but this book so very much more than that.  It is inspiring.  Now when I'm doing something that I don't much like I feel the strength to follow through.  I hope you write a sequel - would love to learn more about the success of your school and students.  Best to you and your family, and "thanks for sharing the love!"
5 Save the receipt.  That's what my wife said when I brought home Open: An Autobiography by Andre Agassi.  She was convinced I wouldn't read 400 pages about someone I never really liked.  For the first time in 24 years of marriage -- she was wrong!!!  Seldom has an autobiography gone to tremendous lengths describing a detailed accountability for all actions taken.  The book starts in such unique fashion and continues throughout.  Yes the foundation years are covered and so are the ups and downs of a treasured tennis career (including his brief drug usage).  He isn't perfect nor does he pretend to be.  But what is most fascinating is how Agassi has put into words his emotions and these emotions are really the theme in his most brilliant book.  Nothing is concealed as he has bared all and lets the reader draw his own conclusions.  Agassi in a word is complicated.  He takes the reader on a 35 year ride to help find himself.  Take away the various forms of dress and haircuts and what you have is a man who only wanted two things:  to be loved and to give love -- both of which he eventually finds.  Fascinating and captivating -- Open: An Autobiography is a work of art.  Throw away the receipt because this book has a permanent place in my library.
5 The book addresses two things:- the results of a hard work ethic- the impact of parenthood on the psyche of a child.
5 I loved this book!  I loved the frankness with which Andre Agassi tells his story.  It was a book I couldn't put down. I wish Andre and Stephie and their kids all the best!!
5 You are on the court with Agassi during every important [and not so important] game.  You feel his pain on and off the court.Funny. Self-deprecating. Honest. Funny [the biggest surprise]. Interesting. Fascinating...and I am not being hyperbolic.  Poignant. Surprising.A guy who doesn't even like the game of tennis was until Roger Federer the best there was outside of Rod Laver.  Go figure.Insightful. Painful. His honesty about his use of Crystal Meth has Martina Navaritolova [according to Katie Couric on 60 Minutes] comparing him to Roger Clemens.  Give me a break.  One is a performance-enhancing drug which took Clemens unfairly to the top of his game.  The other...Meth [Andre's drug of choice] completely knocked him out of the game.  Where did Martina come up with that idiotic analogy?His marriages to Brooke Shields and Steffi Graf are fascinating in that the one that seemed so right turned out to be so wrong and I don't think anyone saw his relationship with Stefi coming and that turned out to be the perfect fit.I have read a lot of sports autobiographies and even though this is a "told to" I feel that it is Andre's voice on every page.  Well done.
5 I love tennis and I adore Agassi.  The book was well written and fascinating. Agassi has a phenomenal memory and the book was honest and engaging.  I couldn't it down.
4 This is a very good read, he is honest about his life and that makes a nice change from a celebrity. He had a harder life than I realised but at last things are easier for him and his family. A good marriage and lovely children have turned his life around.
5 I'll be honest, I am a tennis nut and play and follow the game as much as I can. I am nothing close to professional level however, but understand the pain of losing and the elation of winning in just the same way as Agassi. I have ruined many a good weekend dwelling on what I should have done or could have done to have reached a different match conclusion. Reading his words gave me just the same adrenaline rush I get when playing.Agassi is without a doubt a good guy with a big heart and a terrific unbelievable game.  With the tennis talents that he was given he put them to good use despite an overbearing father,  It is miraculous he just didn't walk away from the game and tell his father to go where the sun doesn't shine and what a loss it would have been to the rest of us!I got a Kindle for a Christmas present and this was the first book I downloaded, I loved the book and was unable to put it down and I am totally hooked on the Kindle.I hope with all my heart that Agassi with his lovely wife and children and his passion for the School that he is responsible for, will find some peace, and I'd like to thank him for sharing his journey with us all.
5 Disclaimer: I picked this up on a whim.  I don't know much about tennis, but as I am about the same age as Andre Agassi, I grew up hearing his name.  When I saw this book on the new release shelf, I decided to take a look."Open" is not a brag about all that Agassi has accomplished, but a raw and honest story of a journey from a difficult childhood under a tyrannical father to mature and healthy adulthood. It can serve as both a warning and an inspiration.  What can Andre do when he has a grammar school education and doesn't know how to do anything but play tennis?  He tells us from the beginning of this book that he hates the game, yet it is nearly impossible for him to give it up.Andre was the youngest child and the last hope for his father, who sought to raise his four children as tennis pros.  An Iranian immigrant and former Olympic boxer, "Mike" Agassi terrorized his family.  Andre describes vignettes that epitomize his father's extreme behavior- such as the time an encounter with another driver led him to jump out of his vehicle and beat the other guy senseless, leaving him unconscious in the middle of the road.  Andre was expected to hit thousands of tennis balls each day, and as a young teen, he was sent to a remote Florida tennis "academy" to improve his game.  He pierces his ears, gets a mohawk, and becomes the ringleader among the tennis academy troublemakers.Agassi speaks candidly about his childhood, but is also very frank about the mistakes he has made in his adult life.  He describes his long distance courtship of Brooke Shields, his bouts of depression, overeating, and drug use. We get the low down on his tennis rivalries, his heroes, and friends.  The book ends on a high note, with Agassi married to women's tennis champion Stefi Graf and finally happy.  It's a fascinating read, and even the detailed descriptions of his training and matches are beautifully told.
4 Very well written honest book though rather repetitiveGives one an insight into the Tennis on a Grand Slam leveland also an autocratic obsessive Father must have been a nightmare for him.
5 Great book. Reads like a novel. Agassi has a photographic memory for everything. I enjoyed reading about Connors, Sampras and Brooke Shields. I always knew that Connors was a baby and spoiled brat. Andre tells it like it is.I really can't imagine anyone not liking this book.
5 Here is a celebrity autobiography where the bombshells are self inflicted: Agazzi hates tennis; he was apathic (sort of) about his first marriage; he was an emotional wreck when losing or when jealous; he took meth; the great hair of his youth was a wig. The closest tell-alls on others are are pretty tame: Pete Sampres is a lousy tipper and Jim Conners is obnoxious. The story and its telling are totally compelling without any big sex scenes or juicy gossip to spice it up.  The drama, instead, is Agassi's life. The way it is written, each game and tournament contain their own host of mini-dramas.Tennis at this level is so competitive that one has to start as a three year old. Not many 3 year olds push their parents for tennis lessons so I expected overbearing child-pushing parents. I was not surprised that Steffi faced the same kind of dad. Agassi's father may be an award winning beast. He employed dangerous authoritarian child rearing/training methods and he could (and maybe still can) become seriously unhinged in relating to the adult world.The prose is very good. The book has an informal style that keeps you page turning. As I read it, I could not believe that Agassi, who dropped out of school in 8th grade wrote it.  There was no "as told to" or other credit on the jacket. Due to the great descriptions of games and opponents, I felt sure there was a sports writer involved. At the end Agassi credits "J.R." and describes the process of how he found him and how they wrote it. Both tennis and book writing are solo sports, but the winners have teams as Agassi's tennis and authorshiip career demonstrate.
5 This was one of the best books I've read in a long time. My son asked me to get it and send it to him at college.  I just thought I would take a look at it before I sent it to him. I read it in two days.  I just couldn't put it down. This book should be read by every fanatical parent out there.  After telling my 15 year old son about it he is now reading it.  I'll be buying a second book to send to my son in college.
5 Loved loved loved this book!!! My first memories of tennis are of Andre Agassi. Although I don't follow tennis at all, I find myself googling him and have the urge to go buy a racket, jump on a court and start hitting balls even though I haven't played since 1995. I highly recommend this one.
5 I loved this book! It had me interested at every page. I have always loved Andre from the first time I saw him play tennis. Anyone who reads this book will be delighted they have. Wonderful story!
5 I am a huge Tennis fun and loved this book. It was a wonderful insight into the minds a tennis players, and particularly one with such a colorful and moody career as Agassi. It's very emotional and very sad at times, but also hopeful in several places and definitely at the end - which is great. I got the audio version and was disappointed the narrator was not Agassi but he actually did a good job (a little whiny at times but maybe the writing calls for that kind of narration). I fell in love with the people surrounding Andre - Gil, Brad, Philly, JP and of course, though I already loved her, Stefi Graf. It's a lovely book even if you don't like tennis, but if you DO like tennis, you shouldn't miss it!
5 I loved this book. I don't usually read biographies or autobiographies, but the other reviews made it sound so good. And it was. Surprisingly fun!
5 I HAVE READ THOUSANDS OF BOOKS, THIS ONE I RANK IN THE TOP TEN.  I THOUGHT I KNEW ANDRE ASSASI, I WAS HESITANT TO GET THIS BOOK.  IT WILL SUPRISE YOU I COULD NOT PUT IT DOWN .  PLAN TO REREAD IT.THIS IS ONE AUTOBIOGRAPHY YOU CANNOT MISS.
5 I'm nearly finished with this book and have absolutely loved his story! Everything from his tough upbringing and his early success to his struggles to be competitive in the tennis world. I was very touched by his excitement and giddiness in pursuing Steffi Graf too! This is one of the best auto-biographies I've read. (Note: I'm not really a fan of tennis; I don't play or watch it professionally, but I still enjoyed the human story that was Open.)
4 I'm a tennis fan, and I've always been an Agassi fan, so I really enjoyed the book. Obviously the book is more enjoyable if you have followed tennis and know a little bit about Agassi's career. Hearing Andre's inner thoughts on his classic matches, high and low points, and other tennis stars was interesting.But the most intriguing part of the book, and where most of its value lies (in my opinion), is the very personal struggles of Agassi throughout his life. It was fascinating to me to get a glimpse of the tormented soul of a superstar athlete. I appreciate the conclusions to where the torment led him. I won't spoil the book by giving them away.
5 Recently this book was thrust upon me by my father. I am a very big tennis fan, but I am not a big reader of biographies, I was always more of a Sampras fan, and my TBR pile is already two stories tall so I didn't really need another book on the pile. Despite all of that fraternal pressure won and I decided to give it a go.I was hooked almost instantly. I know Agassi had a ghost writer (J.R. Moehringer) who helped him with a lot of this, but it doesn't matter. It feels very authentic and is quite moving. As one other reviewer wrote, "It's a completely unexpected trip to places you've never been." Of course I never knew most of what is in this book and I never would have guessed.This was one of those books I could not put down. When I wasn't reading it, I was thinking about the next chance I would get to read it. I think it probably helps if you follow tennis just a little so you know most of the players, but other than that this book stands on it's own as an incredible journey of growing up.I mean, this book was so good I was motivated to write a review despite the fact that I don't like to write reviews. So read it already.
5 I liked Andre before, now I love him even with his faults.  How bravely and honestly written.  He's still a hero to me.
5 I love tennis and have always wanted to learn more about Agassi .  I have watched him grow and often wondered what life was like for him off the courts.  Thanks Agassi for writing a fascinating book about your life.  I could not put it down.
4 Andre really &#34;opened&#34; himself up in this book.  It is really like a coming of age story.  It helps if you like tennis but you don't even have to to enjoy this book.
4 Great book, but It made me depressed reading it.  He seemed to be forced into a sport, and hated it.  All in all it was a very good book.  Don't want to get into it, but it seemed like Andre battle a lot of intenal, and external demons in his time growing up into young adulthood.  He took a job that he hated, and used it as a catalyst for what he's doing now, and seems to love it.
5 I can't say enough great things about this book. One of my all time favorite sports stories. One of my all time favorite memoirs / biographies. It's tennis champion Andre Agassi telling his story, and it is a riveting one. Agassi is incredibly candid, with this story one of his own growth as a person and a player. He is a fascinating guy, with a crazy, fanatical father, and two very different wives - Brooke Shields and Steffi Graff. The writing is great, too. There is a fair amount of tennis in this book, and it helps to understand something about the tennis world, or have an interest in the life of a professional athlete, but this is so well written, it might engage someone with no connection to sports. This is a high 5 star book to me!
5 ANDRE AGASSI'S AUTOBIOGRAPHY BEGINS WITH THE FOLLOWING QUOTE:"ONE CANNOT ALWAYS TELL WHAT IT IS THAT KEEPS UP SHUT IN, CONFINES US, SEEMS TO BURY US, BUT STILL ONE FEELS CERTAIN BARRIERS, CERTAIN GATES, CERTAIN WALLS.  IS ALL THIS IMAGINATION, FANTASY?  I DO NOT THINK SO.  AND THEN ONE ASKS, MY GOD!  IS IT FOR LONG, IS IT FOR EVER, IS IT FOR ETERNITY?  DO YOU KNOW WHAT FREES ONE FROM THIS CAPTIVITY?  IT IS VERY DEEP SERIOUS AFFECTION.  BEING FRIENDS, BEING BROTHERS, LOVE, THAT IS WHAT OPENS THE PRISON BY SUPREME POWER, BY SOME MAGIC FORCE."  VINCENT VAN GOGH.  LETTER TO HIS BROTHER.  JULY, 1880.ANDRE AGASSI IS A MAGIC FORCE!  A LOCAL HERO TO THE PEOPLE OF LAS VEGAS!  (I KNOW, I LIVE HERE).  AND HIS BOOK IS NOT TO BE MISSED.  IT IS FROM THE HEART.  IT IS SAD, SWEET, FUNNY, JOYOUS AND PROFOUND.  IF YOU DO NOT READ IT, YOU WILL MISS STORIES ABOUT:(1)THE GAMES AND PERSONALITIES OF TENNIS LEGENDS, JIMMY CONNORS, JEFF TARANGO, JOHN MCENROE, TODD MARTIN, MICHAEL CHANG, BORIS BECKER AND PETE SAMPAS AMONG OTHERS.  HOW MUCH DOES PETE TIP FOR PARKING HIS CAR?(2)HAIR ISSUES FOR ANDRE, HIS BROTHER PHIL, HIS SON JADEN AND HIS SISTER TAMI.(3)THE FIRST MEETING BETWEEN "THE FATHERS"- MIKE AGASSI AND PETER GRAF.(4)THE COURTSHIP AND SHORT-LIVED MARRIAGE BETWEEN ANDRE AND BROOKE:THE PROPOSALS, PLAYING CARDS AND SCUBA DIVING, STEFANI'S PICTURE AND BROOKE.(5)THE FRIENDSHIP BETWEEN BARBRA AND ANDRE.(6)ANDRE'S TENNIS MATCH HABITS OF NOT WEARING UNDERWEAR AND BOWING TO THE FOUR CORNERS OF THE COURT FOLLOWING A MATCH.(7)ANDRE'S SPECIAL GIFT TO HIS TRAINER, GIL.(8)ANDRE'S DRIVING HABITS:  TWO TICKETS FOR SPEEDING IN ONE DAY,HIS WHITE CADDY, "LILLY."(9)ANDRE AND MONEY:  IRONING WRINKLES OUT OF BEN FRANKLIN'S FACEON TWENTY OF THOSE PICTURES,  HIS BROTHER PHIL WINNING MONEY PLAYING CARDS SO ANDRE COULD BUY SHIRTS,  HIS DEAL WITH NIKE FOR REAL MONEY WHEN TURNING PRO.  (NO MORE BEERS FOR WINNING.)(10)ANDRE AND HIS COURTSHIP AND MARRIAGE TO STEFANI:  WHY THEY BOTH CONSIDER THE MOVIE "SHADOWLANDS" THEIR FAVORITE,  HOW ANDRE LOST AND FOUND HER PHONE NUMBER,  THE SPECIAL BIRTHDAY CARD HE MADE.(11)ANDRE'S LOVE FOR CHILDREN AS EXPRESSED IN HELPING FRIENDS:A NEW YORK RESTAURANT MANAGER, GIL'S DAUGHTER, SLIM'S BABY.(12)TULIPS AND WOODEN SHOES AND CIGAR SMOKERS AT TOURNAMENTS.(13)DOGS IN FRENCH RESTAURANTS.(14)ORANGES AND VEGAS LOAN SHARKS.BE PREPARED!  ONCE YOU START READING, YOU WON'T STOP UNTIL THE LAST PAGE IS READ AND YOU CLOSE THE BOOK WITH A SIGH AND A SMILE AND A THANK YOU!
4 Ande Agassi is one of my favorite tennis players.  Such a revealing story about his very difficultt life growing up in a family with a father who pushed him to the limit to become a top player.  An insight in to his struggles and his many failures along the way to the top.  A boy who hated tennis, but did not know how to do anything else, so he kept playing.  This book will open your eyes to the very difficult and draining life of a pro tennis player as they travel the world almost 24/7.
5 I didn't read this book earlier, because at the time it was published, I thought, man, Agassi, you still need to get attention.  After all those years in the limelight, you've got to stir up some more controversy like always with all your revelations about hating tennis, about your overbearing father and about experiments with crystal meth.  You just can't retire and fade away.But I liked him as a player and colorful personality in the game, and I admired his push to succeed late in his career when many people wrote him off as a has-been.  The good reviews on Amazon convinced me that this could be a good read too.It is not only a good read, it's a compelling and even inspiring read.  Agassi's retirement seems to have given him the ability to see his life/career from a more objective perspective.  And he doesn't shy away from revealing painful truths about himself, his family, his career -- his life in its entirety.Reading this book brought back a lot of memories -- I grew up watching Agassi and his contemporaries (Sampras, Courier, Wilander, Becker, Chang and all the others), and it was interesting getting an insider's perspective on what it was like to be there, to endure the grind, the emotional highs and lows and the ultra-competition of that life.By the time the book nears it's completion and Agassi's body and mind are breaking down, I got goose bumps.  He is a man who has had to overcome many personal demons, but a man full of love and compassion because he had to battle those demons.  It is a book as much about hard work and perseverance as it is about finding oneself.  A mesmerizing read from beginning to end.
5 Andre was not just a great player, but also a great actor on the professional tennis stage.  I didn't know that about him.  I was quite shocked at his story of torment and pain from childhood on, while I always thought he was a happy, caring, kind and exceptionally talented player. I always knew that he was driven, but I did not know it was by such  inner demons!  I spoke briefly to him at an Indian Wells tournament many years ago, praising him for his play and always was one of his biggest fans.  So reading his story was all encompassing for me. I could not put it down. I am not sure that those unfamiliar with the world of tennis and a passion for the game would enjoy all of his detail about his games, his matches and the tournaments. But certainly anyone who loves the sport and loved watching him play through the years will find the truths of his life fascinating, though disconcertingly surprising and some quite painful. BUT kudos for his forthright honesty and for his great contributions to youth with his fine academy.  Also there is relief in knowing that Stephanie and their two children have brought such joy and love into his life, he deserves such as this, finally!  I recommend that anyone who reads "Open" turns to page 387 first, to read the Acknowledgements to discover why this memoir is so well written by J.R. Moehringer and with the help of a whole support team.
5 I'm a self-proclaimed memoir afficionado and Agassi's is powerfully written from start to finish. It took me about a week to read off and on and when I was done, I thought, Now, where was I? "Open" takes you away. I'd give it 10 stars if I could.
5 Lo and behold! This is the best ever tennis biography I've ever read (my opinion)"I don't care about the substance abuse or saying he hates tennis. The fact is: he said it! It's really "OPEN", it's not false advertising. You might like him more or like him less, but anyway this will not change the fact that this one hell of a sports biography!Also, it's extremely well written and entertaining to read. Ghost-writer J.R. Moehringer did a out-of-this-world, winning job.This book has much more depth and warmth than other sport biographies around. It's clearly a winner, and it seems Agassi put all his heart into it.Read it in three days!
5 You wouldn't expect an autobiography to be so gripping - especially since, as a tennis player and fan, I've followed Andre's career since he was 19.  I could hardly put this down.  What an insight into what a famous and talented person's life is really like.  I usually pass along books I've finished but I'm keeping this to read again.
5 With great pleasure, I write this review with a hope that it will have the effect intended. That is, that it will influence someone else to read this book. Why? If you have ever read stories by Alexandre Dumas, Thomas Wolfe, or Pat Conroy more than once simply because you hadn't heard of or found anything else as good, then you will be happy to know that this unlikely story of a celebrated tennis player may be added to that short list.It will make you laugh and cry. Some will enjoy the insight it brings to the mental side of a professional game. Some will enjoy the information about celebrities. Anyone who enjoys good literature will be the real winners. Once this book has won a national book award, reviews will not be needed. Until then, take a chance. Read a really good book.
4 I found this to be a great read - i'd give it 4.5 out of 5. Sure it's not a deep and heavy work of literature but I found it really interesting to hear about his life and emotional path.  Agassi was such a talented player who was thought of as a choke artist for such a long time until he got his mind straight.  I like that he really goes into each match and tourney and discusses why he tanked or what he was thinking.  It's clear from reading this that so many of his failures occurred due to his emotional state. And you can hear in his voice and in his match results how much a stable home life changed him.Some highlights for me are:- talking about his overbearing father and how that shaped his childhood- his journey to find friends and peers that he could relate to and that helped him- talking about Steffi and how much of an impact she had on him- comparing himself to Pete Sampras and how their two paths differed- the anecdote of when his dad met Steffi's dad.I would highly recommend this book to anyone who likes tennis or Agassi.
5 Since a lot has already been said about the book I would just like to add that it was an eye opening look into his life. The struggles and truth that lie within it strike a resonating chord with anyone trying to live their truth, make a living, and make others happy. I thought that it was moving and spoken with heart.
5 Rarely read biographies, and even less so those of sports figures, but this has to be one of the best out there. Essentially, the book is written by author of The Tender Bar J.R. Moehringer, which isn't revealed until the acknowledgements at the end. Agassi was wise to seek his help. I was always a huge Agassi fan -- still am, though maybe slightly less now, as he seems to whine quite a bit for a guy so blessed with family, friends and talent.
4 If I knew tennis better this would be even better.  It seemed a little repetitious to me because of my lack of knowledge of the game.  However, his life story is facinating.
5 First, I must admit that I've always had a huge crush on Andre Agassi.  I actually had posters of him on my walls in High School.  I bought into the whole Cannon "Rebel"/Image is Everything, marketing propaganda.  And I feel badly about that now that I've read "Open" and understand how much Andre disliked that portrayal.  "Open" is a fine book; a quick and fascinating read.  And like other reviewers, I find myself haunted by the book.  This is the kind of book you will want to hold onto, because you might want to read it again. Andre is indeed Open, incredibly candid and honest.  He let's the reader see him warts and all (the drug use, the hairpiece!).  But the warts don't detract from the man at all: there is much to be admired here.  Andre Agassi has the heart of both a champion and a humanitarian.  He is the kind of friend who will always be there in a crisis, and he cares very much about giving back.  No wonder, that I have an even bigger crush on him than I did before.
4 A friend recommended this book and I wasn't too keen to read it however from the first page I was hooked. It was very interesting and gives you a rare insight into Andre Agassi's amazing life. I appreciated his honesty and humour. It was well written and easy to read...very enjoyable.
5 Erik Davies, an actor and screen personality, provides a vivid a fine reading to the autobiography of a gifted tennis pro. From his background as a ninth-grade dropout, his teen years would change the face of tennis and shock the world, leading him to become an overnight sensation. His story is a pick for any general-interest library.
5 Agassi opens his heart and soul in this bio,  You will be shocked at what he was thinking about during historic and crucial matches.  For fans of Agassi and tennis in general.
4 I especially enjoyed the earlier parts about Agassi's unhappy childhood, crazy father, and the Bollettieri academy. The later parts describing countless matches, with one humiliating, soul-crushing defeat after another, become monotonous, but these accounts are peppered with unusually candid observations, many of them unflattering remarks about his famous tennis rivals. However, the main appeal of this book for me is the overall picture of what it takes to achieve world-class status in a competitive endeavor. The sacrifices, single-minded focus, pain, loneliness, mania, dejection, and hard work that he describes seem exotic and almost inhuman to me, like the experiences in Into Thin Air or Alive.
5 I have been a fan of Andre's since he first started.  Don't know why, I just loved him and his game.  I saw him at the Australian Open years ago and it was something I will never forget.This book was terrific.  He has a very witty turn of phrase and there were many times I laughed out loud.If you're looking for a warts and all expose of professional tennis and the players, then this isn't it.  If you are looking for a witty read about a boy growing into a man with some true characters in his life (his dad!), then you'll enjoy this.I did, a lot.
5 This book by Andre Agassi is the best book that I have read in ages!  Since I am an avid tennis player and fan of the sport, I have kept a close eye on some of the players that I adored watching over and over. Andre was the top of the list. I studied at Bolleterri's, Saddlebrook and Topsail's in Florida. I could relate to him on a very minimal tennis skill level but nevertheless, I too sweated it out in the blazing sun usually for a tee shirt, not a trophy. I am almost 60 years old now. I am still lousy at the game and I detest it in the same way as Andre has detested it. Boy, did he ever put it in perspective for me.Andre has always been a mystery to me because I think his life always was sheltered and protected to the point that no one really knew anything much about him. I was pleased to learn that he is human and more than that - a good, genuine person. This all comes out in his wonderful book, OPEN.Andre is on my bucket list. I have even taken a tennis lesson from his sister years ago just to get even sort of close to him ( She revealed absolutely nothing about him- not one single tid bit that I could bring back to my pal's at the club. But, she sure can play ball! ) I guess I am considered a groupee, but what a role model to be a groupee of!I am an author of two novels and I know what it is like to also write from one's heart. I appreciated this book, it clarified what this person is made of!This is a great book which was way too short for me! I applaud his honesty and his humor, his candid approach to things and I am relieved and so happy that he has found the key. He deserves it!
5 I was intrigued by Andre Agassi's interviews as he discussed his memoir Open, written in collaboration with J.R. Moehringer, author of The Tender Bar. Agassi's account of sinking into the nihilistic abyss followed by reorienting himself is nothing less than riveting. The memoir begins with Agassi, a helpless child, beholden to the tyranny of his ambitious, violent, demon-possessed father who enslaves his son and forces him through brute force to be a tennis champion.This book belongs in the memoir pantheon next to This Boy's Life by Tobias Wolff,  The Duke of Deception  by Geoffrey Wolff, Cooked by Jeffrey Henderson, and Permanent Midnight by Jerry Stahl.
5 Extremely candid, heartbreaking and funny, Agassi's book was one I couldn't put down.  Without being too snarky, I now I know what it's like to be married to Brooke Shields.  All kidding aside, an excellent look at competition at the highest level and the enormity of the emotional, physical and psychological toll it takes on all players - champions and hopefuls alike.  And it's not just the players, it's their families, trainers, coaches, boy/girl friends, competitors, siblings and fans. Makes you grateful to have had a childhood even if there weren't a lot of trophies in yours.
5 Andre Agassi has always been my idol, since the days he had long blond hair and a rebel attitude. I remember being 15 years old and talking about him with all my club buddies (all girls of course) about him and his looks. The boys were jealous I remember. But the image I had in mind was all opposite to what he shows in this book. For me, Andre was the rich and famous tennis star, great champion, with the perfect wife. Well, it turns out his life had a lots of ups and down which he exposes crudely in this book. You will get caught deeper and deeper page after page. I read it in 3 or 4 days. I couldn't stop. Now, I love my tennis idol not only for his talent, charisma and the good looks, but also because he showed me his human side telling his crude life story that for moments was far from glamourous. Highly recommended for everyone
5 Funny, witty, I never expected such an honest and entertaining book from him. If only Federer would also write his....
5 Most people have days where they say to themselves "I hate my job". For Agassi, this was everyday from the age of 7. You would never know from his on court persona how internally conflicted this man really was. He loved and hated tennis with a passion - and it wasn't until the end of his career that he really realized this. If you grew up watching Agassi, his triumphs, his on and off court failures, his comeback, and finally his retirement, you owe it to yourself to read this book and learn about the man behind the man.
4 I am a huge tennis fan and admired Agassi when he was able to come back to the top ranking in tennis so late in his career.  But reading this book was very disillusioning for me.  Is it just me or does Agassi come across as extremely self-involved and selfish? There is little indication that he sees this in himself. From his constant leaning on his friends for support to his complete aversion to any compromise in his marriage to Shields, it is always only about him.  She is the one who needed to change.  Her friends were superficial - his friends, of course, were stellar.  There was more than a modicum of truth in her statement that his friends were enablers.  Her career was boring to him yet she was supposed to be endlessly interested in his. And it goes on and on in that vein. He did only what he wanted to do and was never interested in broadening out to include activities that they could enjoy together.At some point, his "friends" should have told him what a self-involved whiner he had become.It is nice that Agassi has found redemption in charity but I will never feel the same about him as a person after reading this book.  That having been said, it is well written and flows easily.  I enjoyed the tennis parts of it, although I thought he was pretty snarky about his opponents.I hope that Steffi is extremely laid back and patient because I'm not sure Andre has been as "open" with himself as he needs to be.
4 I'm a tennis player and Agassi has been one of my favorites since he was young. His story, though, is much different than I anticipated. Far from the boastful self-indulgence of many autobiographies, his is an exploration of his insecurities and his journey from talented tike to the discovery of what kind of man he is. It's not an easy trip. He hates tennis. Always has. But something drove him to be good at it. First it was his father who hurled 130 mph balls at him, 2500 a day, when he wasn't yet in first grade. Then it was Nick Bolleteri who doesn't come off well in the early years, but makes the deal with Andre in 9th grade that changes his life in two ways...he drops out of school, and decides to become a real player.Over the years Agassi collects the people he calls his team. The ones who care for him, encourage him, and love him. Like many young men with money and talent, he finds himself in the celebrity scene with a celeb wife. They grow apart but he keeps searching for his soulmate. Eventually, and with patience and persistence, he makes his way to the woman who had fascinated him since his youth, Stephie Graf, and finds the path that inspires his life beyond tennis.A great read for the insights of the game and the players. I found my own game influenced by Andre's. If he was upbeat in the section I was reading, I could channel his success. If he was feeling insecure and down, I didn't play so well.
5 "Open" is one of the best sports biographies (since Agassi didn't actually write it, I'm refusing to call it an autobiography) I have ever read (and I've read quite a few), and one of the most compelling reads of any genre I've had in a long time.  Normally, non-fiction books take me a while to wade through; they simply don't have a narrative flow that keeps me turning pages.  "Open" is an exception.  Agassi's thoughts and rememberances were recorded on tape by Aggy, and then his ghostwriter, put the stories together in a first-person, present-tense form, that takes us from Agassi's youth up to his retirement.  Normally, sports biographies lose their luster around page 200, but this book goes all the way to page 382 without losing any speed.  Even the epilogue, which details some of what Agassi's charter school in Vegas is doing, makes for interesting reading.This book will be the standard to which many future sports biographies will be compared to.
4 I rate this autobiography of Andre Agassi so highly because, of course, given the involvement of a Pulitzer Prize-winning ghostwriter, the narrative sparkles. It is what raises this book above many others of its kind.I found the first part of the book, Agassi's childhood with a maniacal father and passive mother, utterly engrossing. In many narratives like this, the author tries so hard to tell a good story that you don't feel the pain of it. I found this to be so in Mary Karr'sThe Liars' Cluband Leslie Garis'sHouse of Happy Endings. Here, Agassi's pain is almost overwhelming. He is a prisoner in his family and his hatred runs deep.His later adolescence in a "tennis mill" is told in horrifying detail. ThisLord of the Fliesenclave, in which adult supervision is nonexistent, becomes for Agassi a setting of primal brutality and fear. His bewilderment and hurt is so palpable, and so damaging in his adult life, that it comes as a huge relief to the reader when Agassi, after some deep soul searching in his late 30s, finally expresses a desire to play well and enjoys tennis for perhaps the first time in his life, even playing matches for fun with his wife, Steffi Graf.In between is a lot of angst, anger and acting out. As in many sports narratives (like Jennifer Sey'sChalked Up: My Life in Elite Gymnastics), I skipped a lot of the details -- how do athletes remember all this?! -- rekindling my interest as the most important people in Agassi's life make their entrances. A book like this is a great palliative for those of us who mourn our humdrum existences. Mediocrity and contentment aren't so bad a lot!
5 I am a tennis and have been an Agassi fan since I was in high school. That said what makes this book great is the writing by J.R. Moeringher. I loved his own memoir ("The Tender Bar") and can feel his fingerprints all over the narrative. Poor Mr. Moeringher, I'm not sure he'll ever have a story with a good father. Luckily, his stories always have good father figures.The book does an excellent job of explaining the struggle a lot of us feel in our 20s. We feel trapped, unsure, and unsteady; trying to navigate the world. All good biopics of the last 15 years have the subject hitting rock bottom 2/3's of the way in, but this story comes closer than any other in explaining the acceptance and choice (and consequences) that come with growing up and being happy.This book would be great even if it weren't about one of my favorite tennis players of all time.
3 I kinda liked this book, but only kinda. I felt that it didn't warrant a full 4 stars because it wasn't that well written and that while I do love tennis and have a basic understanding of it, i don't know all of the terms and so I felt a little lost as what he meant. I also felt that some matches that he was describing would just drag on and I would lose interested. Other matches, however, I couldn't stop reading needing to know what happened.I felt that the book starting with his last game was a great, knowing where he ends and then going back to the beginning offered a really awesome perspective as he pursued his wife and worked from being a child and grew into a world champion. I learned a lot about tennis and how ranking and the sport works as well as interesting facts about Agassi. Such as that he hated tennis and yet it was his life.One of the things that caused a huge controversy about this book was that it came out that he used drugs while playing tennis. While I understand that this is wrong, and against all of the rules that exist for professional tennis players, I don't see why people freaked out about it. I'm not sure if maybe he just downplayed it in his book or it it wasn't that big a deal, but it didn't seem like much.I got to discuss this book with my boyfriend who is a tennis player and he mentioned how much Agassi seems to whine in this book. And I realized that he does do a lot of complaining about how people didn't like him and how much he hated tennis and how sad he was about Brooke. I do think that he complained an awful lot, but I can't hold that against him since thats what I do all the time.He was a total baby about his relationship with Brooke Shields as far as I am concerned. I think that his freak out over her scene in Friends was completely childish-expecially when he went home and trashed his trophies. No other moments in the book really stood out other than him meeting his wife which was adorable how he tried to get her long before they even got together.I was kind of annoyed by the lack of quotation marks because I couldn't tell where talking began and ended in some parts but not many. It was a really interesting look into the life of a tennis megastar, so I would recommend it if you were ever curious what it was like to be the number one tennis player in the world then this is a great book to check out. It was a little slow at the start when he was talking about being younger and playing, but once he started to talk about playing in tournaments it get a lot faster paced.
5 Really interesting and well written book. Agassi has one of the more interesting stories in sports and I'm glad it was focused on his career.
3 This book was interesting and read it twice.  But I thought the book was a bit long and wordy.  But if you followed Agassi's life then you will enjoy seeing a bit behind the scenes and his thoughts.  But much is predictable and the voice can be weak at times.
5 An absolutely fantastic book. Little did I know Andre Agassi hated tennis! He takes you through his world from childhood to his farewell at the 2006 US Open. There is so much to Andre Agassi and he puts it all down in black and white. I never thought this would be a good book, I can only say it was a great book!
5 This was my first Kindle read in what I now call the WWOK (Wonderful World of Kindle) about someone I didn't know much about, but had read an excerpt of the book in People Magazine.  I was tempted to buy the HB edition, but still held out hope that I'd get my Kindle for Christmas, which I did, and this was the my first read.  It's an amazingly open (no pun intended), honest, from the gut book I've read, and while I've never much enjoyed the game of tennis, or watching it being played, I admire what this man went though, especially because he HATED tennis, as he tells us so many times.  What a gifted man; a great storyteller, too.  He will forever change how people view the game of tennis, but more importantly, he told us all how it really was for him, his friends, family and other competitors.  Too often when we see athletes competing we think of how much they must love what they do, and oftentimes it appears as though what they're doing is effortless.  Mr. Agassi reminds us all that it's really not, and that looks can and are deceiving.  The amount of time practicing, the different surfaces played on, the different stakes, all of which I had no idea of, really make for an interesting story.  The fact that it also had an ending that made me smile, made it all that much better.My hats off to a great tennis player, a great athlete, a great husband and devoted father.  Mr. Agassi, your book is well written, easy to read, even though I didn't always "get" what the scores meant, yours is a book that really helped me to understand competitive sports more and makes me want to donate to your foundation for at risk children, because children are our future.  This is a book that really makes us aware that athletes are people too, and that they have an even harder life than we'd ever think possible.  I'm glad this was my first Kindle read; I intend to read hundreds of books, and will remember this one for some time.I recommend this book to all that love to read, to anyone that loves sports, especially tennis.  It has a great storyline, and I found often that it was hard for me to put down.  Thank you for reading my post.
5 Open by Andre Agassi was an inspiring story about a great tennis player.  I am not a sports fan, but I had picked up this book at the library and was thrilled with the story and the openness of Andre in writing this book.  I purchased this copy from Amazon for a friend who was a professional tennis player as he had not read it yet.  I enjoyed the sharing of not only the details of his life, but his insights, his right and wrong decisions and his determination even when his physical pain was overwhelming.  I am inspired because of this book to push forward even when it seems that I have no strength left or others want to discourage me from meeting my dreams.  I highly recommend this book whether or not you are a sports/tennis fan.  You will find inspiration, laughter, tears and a sense of triumph.  Get it, read it, pass it on.
5 I'm not really a tennis fan and this book was kind of forced onto me by my tennis obsessed brother, but this is far from being anything but a book about tennis. It's a book about a man with ambition, raw emotions, pain, anguish, love and joy, someone who feels, hurts and lives just like the rest of us. I honestly couldn't put this down once I started it, just amazing read about an amazing guy. And come to think about it I can't even  remember reading that much about tennis in the book.
4 A truly interesting story, well told with the help of one of my favorite authors: JR Moehringer. I'm still not sure that I believe Agassi when he says he hates tennis, though.
5 Andre had a brutal life but it made him a champion. Good trade? Maybe but page 92 with the panda and the love and character he fights to reveal made me admire this man. God bless.
4 In reviewing Sarah Palin's Going Rogue, I railed against the over exposure of celebrities.  I saw the same elements of this in Andre Agassi's book, Open.  However, after reading, you discover many interesting facts that were never discovered.  I question the integrity of the book company leading this book with the Meth story.  It seemed like a cheap attempt to sell books at any cost.  This is what's wrong with not only the book industry, but also society as a whole.(i.e. ballon boy, White House Gate crashers, Larry Sinclair(google him for a ridiculous story), etc.)Buy my new book on Race Relations and the polarization of America:[...]Plain Talk - Volume 1
5 Loved this book.  I read it when it first came out .  It was great history of his training and career.  I have friends who are serious tennis players and they said it was a favorite too.
5 Andre Agassi has long been one of my favourite sportsmen.  His writing in this book has opened my eyes to some of the difficulties and oppression he suffered along the way to becoming the tennis star we know.
5 Andre Agassi has written a 'tell-all' book about his life in tennis. And, it turns out, he hated tennis. That was a bigger shocker to me than the salacious fact that he was on 'crystal meth'for a period of time. J.R. Moehringer, the author of 'A Tender Bar' and a Pulitzer Prize winner for his writing was a co-author of this autobiography. Andre loved Moehringer's writing in 'The Tender Bar', and he is correct, the man's writing and the book are excellent. This book, too, is very well written and is an exceptional read.Andre tells us that he started playing tennis at the age of 3 and by the age of 5 he was showing an aptitude for the game. He was pushed by his father-an obsessive man who pushed his son too far and too much. In fact his father felt that education was not necessary and a hindrance to his tennis practice.  Andre could never tell his father how much he hated the game because it was Andre's responsibility to help his family, and that is what he did. He left school in the ninth grade, something that has bothered him his entire career. His goal was to achieve in tennis. He was enrolled in the Bollettien tennis camp, but it felt more like a prison than a camp. The academy, in Agassi's words, was "Lord of the Flies with forehands." In retaliation Andre started wearing earrings, grew his hair long and wore loud clothes. Thus his reputation was born.  As his career started to flourish, Andre, tried to keep it all together. He was known as the flamboyant player, the real player. He played the best tennis players in the world, and he was one of the best. He had an eye for the ball, and the 'tell' of players when they were about to hit the big one.Andre Agassi talks about his rivals, the ones who were boring, the ones who kept it all together and the the real players; Pete Sampras, Boris Becker and Jimmy Connors  The book is at its best when the game of tennis is being discussed. Each play during the tournaments and how he figured out how to win. He talks of his marriage to Brooke Shields, he never really wanted to be married, just like he never really liked to play tennis. His crystal meth years, the spiel he gave the Tennis Association when he tested positive for drugs. He finally met and married Steffi Graf and found the happiness that had so long eluded him.He has built a life and a foundation that sponsors a charter school. He gave the first graduation speech and wowed the crowd. A ninth grade drop-out he has achieved success and fame. He has found his life and he has become Open. For anyone who loves tennis, this is a book that will be a fascinating look at the life of a giant in the tennis world and told in words that best describes him. He finally lives down his famous words 'Image Is Everything'.Highly Recommended.  prisrob 11-09-09The Tender Bar
3 I don't care if Agassi wrote the book for money, if he took crystal meth (and lied about it), if he hated his father, or if he hated tennis (and lied about it). Only he really knows why he wrote the book. Frankly, I don't care about his personal life; though, I'm sure it affected his tennis and the player he could have been.I read the book for exactly one thing: for his internal monologues that take place while he's playing significant (or not) matches. Those were fun! If you're an avid or rabid tennis fan (or someone who wanted to play professional tennis and didn't), you'll definitely appreciate that part of the book. I'm fascinated to know how professional tennis players handle a critical moment in a match or how they pick up or feel the intensity (or not) from their opponent in a tight situation. It's those subtle differences and nuances that separate the Federers' and Sampras' from everyone else. (Oh. Contrary to popular belief, I don't think he disrespected Sampras. In one particular paragraph, he uses an unfortunate choice of words, but Agassi definitely admired Sampras.)I've always thought that tennis was one of the more difficult professional sports because you have to sustain consistency and focus over a longer period of time in order to attain immortality. For example, a professional football game is over in 3 hrs; a baseball game, 3 hrs; a basketball game, 3 hrs; a professional golf tournament, over 4 days; but for a Grand Slam tennis tournament, you have to stay focused over 2 weeks and you don't play every day. Think about it: one has to play seven matches over 14 days and deal with the in-between daily distractions (or hope they don't get sick or food poisoning or some other unexpected event). Some are/were great at doing that in their era (Federer, Sampras, Nadal, Graf, Navratilova, Evert, Borg, Connors, Emerson, Laver), but that's exactly why they're considered head and shoulders above the pack. I like reading excerpts about what they were thinking at a particular point in a match and/or when it began to go south or began to get better (or they ate the wrong thing; strayed from their regular pre-match routine; changing strategy/tactics during the match; let a fan get to them, or an opponent's mannerisms; stayed out too late, etc., etc.). When it sticks to tennis and the matches, the book is hugely entertaining, especially when he talks about various players and his opinion of them. That was just priceless.Agassi? I was never an Agassi fan for various reasons and my opinion of him has not changed in reading his book. He has my complete respect, however, because he's 1 of 6 men who have completed a career Grand Slam and that's an impressive and satisfying personal accomplishment considering the number of people who play tennis for years and never amount to much. Good for him! (The gold medal? Well, PROFESSIONAL tennis players at the Olympics? Not that impressed.) I liked his giddiness about finally meeting Stefanie and his courtship of her. And now, I think I'm going to read Brad Gilbert's "Winning Ugly." Gilbert was (and still is) a hoot!The rest of the book? Fodder for the celebrity trackers and gossipers. Definitely insight into his character (or lack thereof), but worth reading if you REALLY like tennis.The length of the book? I was fine with it. Given the story, I would expect the  narrative to have some challenges. Again, though, it was all about the tennis for me.The paper/printing? Please. People can't be serious about this, right? Didn't want to buy the book? That's why there are libraries. That's what I did!
5 This is a fantastic book, the "ghost writer" did his job very well, and Andre's life had many memorable events, and they are expertly told.  I don't run into books often that I can't put down.  This is one of them.  Some think "Open" is the best sports autobiography ever.  That may be true.
5 Excellent book. I found it unbelievable how hard he and others had to train to play professionally - sure there should be an minimum age you get to (say 12) before you're allowed to devote your life to anything, let alone a professional sport? His sacrifice to play tennis was incredible.For the tennis fan, it's a must-have, but for the casual reader it's an unparalleled insight into how driven yet fearful some of the most successful and famous people in the world are.
5 You feel sorrow for him, then you are mad at him, then you hate him, then you like him and finally-you love him. If you are a tennis player, you will not be able to put the book down.
5 You have to be very brave to put your soul on a platter, to let yourself be discovered to strangers.It takes great courage.It is so rarely encountered in our world today...that's 1 reason why this gesture is so precious.Andre had a tough childhood in the shadow of his father, during his story he appears to be a very sensible guy, which is something new to a lot of fans I guess.World is just beginning now to discover Andre, even though he played tennis all this time.I liked what I've found in his soul's testimony of an amazing trip called life.The book it's about discovering oneself, trying to be objective and true with yourself and others, something amazing indeed, and more valuable than a diamond ring or a gold rock on a woman's middle finger.I almost can't believe that he opened himself all that much to reveal himself to all the world.Unbelievable but true and beautiful.
5 I really became aware of Andre Agassi only later in his career, when his winning streak brought him to Australia. Like many Aussies, I loved watching him play, and the sense of calm he presented (in his later years). What a surprise to read of his childhood struggles and his self doubt.  A brutally honest autobiography, with a happy ending (so far).So glad I read it, and I'd recommend this to anyone.  Love of tennis is definitely optional, because in the end that's not really what this book is about.
5 This book is a thoroughly honest and psychologically interesting window into a fascinating sports hero.  The childhood experiences, particularly the parental insanity, are engrossing and excruciating but necessary to read and understand. I put down the book with a lot of empathy and positive feeling about the writer - the writing and information is far superior to many other books like it.
5 Andre hits a winner with this book and with surprising candor describes who he is. He is someone who hates tennis, is sensitive to criticism, and has to `get up' emotionally for matches.  I was surprised by all of these things.I read this book because Andre has always been one of my favorite tennis players. In fact, after Jimmy Conners, he is my favorite! He doesn't have too many nice comments about Conners as a person, by the way; Conners, he said, almost went out of his way to be disliked by his competitors.It seemed to me that early in his career, he played to the crowds to win their affection and, somehow, late in his career he was extremely popular without even having to try. It also seemed that he slumped while he was married to Brooke Shields (who I think is one of the most beautiful women on earth), and came back full force when he took up with and eventually married Steffi Graff.  He had a new mental toughness that was almost inspiring. He gives us forthright insight into how all this worked out.I was surprised by how good of a writer he is. Something like his tennis - quick paced and direct.  It involved lots of pointed short sentences and revealing dialogue.His father basically robbed him of his youth by forcing him to play tennis all the time.  He really did hate tennis and he reiterates time and again how his father ruined it for him.  It was daring for him to put that in his book.I remember Borg saying some years ago that the mental part of tennis was much tougher than the physical part - when he attempted a comeback.  I'm sure it involves constant thinking about your next move and trying to stay on top of things emotionally. Andre, for his part, surrounded himself with his `entourage' of friends and associates who helped him deal with the isolation he felt on the court: he talks a lot about how lonely it is out there.This book disabused me of previous notions of what he was like, but that's OK: I would rather know the truth. I really admire his candor.Andre's a good guy - just a little more real after reading the book.
5 As a tennis player and fan who has followed and cheered for the A-train since the beginning of his career, I was anxious to read his reflections.  This book is SUPERBLY written and immensely insightful.  The sensitive Agassi that began showing itself late in his career comes out in spades.  He reveals himself in a fascinating voyage of self-discovery and the narrative ties it all together beautifully.  He was a joy to watch on the court and this book is an equal joy to read.
5 I was bored, so i headed to Barnes and Noble on a lazy Saturday afternoon. I saw the book 'Open' by Andre Agassi staring at me in the face, and started reading. First of all, i've always been an Agassi fan. I had heard all the "oh my god! he did drugs!" cries from everyone upon the book's release. From the opening pages, i was totally engaged, enthralled, taken on a great ride. Seriously, i don't know if it was the writing style, my love for tennis, or perhaps a thrill to hear about this particular celebrity, but man was this a gripping book. Money is tight these days, so i ended up going back to the bookstore every day for 2 weeks until i finished this book. I highly recommend it. It's inspiring, interesting, passionate, fun.....everything a great book should be. I usually read fiction, but now i am going to read more autobiographies. This was a special book, i loved reading it.
5 I started playing tennis as a hobby more or less at the time &#34;Andre Agassi&#34; was a really powerful name, then I decided to give a go for the book. This is incredibly well written (there are not many Pulitzer prize winner ghostwriters around there) and the story is much more interesting than you can imagine. I couldn't keep my eyes out of the book until the very last page!
5 What a revelation it was to write this stream of events that is your book in the present tense!  It is as immediate as Dos Pasos.  Life is a series of moments tied together in our memories.  We are there with you Andre...inside the 4 year old, at 17, at 25, and on and on and in between.  The moments are vivid.  The experiences are as real as if they are our own.  I never played to millions, or displayed anything like your artistry on the court.  I never had a heart to heart with Barbara Streisand, or pushed myself up a desert hill full of rattle snakes.  But as Andre knows, these are metaphors.  We all have our moments and mountains.  Bravo for your honesty in showing us how you have climbed and are climbing your personal hilly lands.  Thank you for letting us hear Nelson Mandela and putting his presence in our hearts.  Thank you for showing us Gil.  Thank you for letting us feel your pain, and brilliance, triumphs and weaknesses.  A few years ago I listened to you, Brad Gilbert, and your lovely wife Stephanie (she with the most understanding eyes and grace) on radio on a bay area sports station.  I was so moved by your humanity, articulation, and warmth.  I dreamed that my wife and I could meet you and your wife in a Tiburon cafe, strike up a conversion, and drive with you both to Valley of the Moon, Jack London's temple to his faded dreams. I saw it as something that I could give back to you.  I know that you are now in the whirlwind of publicity.  The never satiated animal of media knows nothing but eating and defecating. It's funny because the revelation of drug use is such a minor part of the book.  It is another in a series of shared lessons.  Please know, Andre, that above all you have inspired.  You have taught.  You have comforted.  You have created smiles and laughter.Bravo.
5 It's to be expected than a sporting autobiography will take the reader through the events won and lost and the associated career ups and downs. And this Agassi's autobiography does. But what Agassi also delivers, in marked contrast to most sporting biographies, is a wonderfully written, touching, brutally honest, and insightful book.A strong case can be made that Agassi's is the best sporting autobiography since that of Mikhail Tal decades ago.Agassi's autobiography delivers with the power and grace he exhibited previously as a tennis player. For any sports fan this is an unmissable book.
5 Absolutely absorbing, his writing brings you to center court and beyond.  He describes "his team" lovingly.  His "family first" is refreshing. Talk about playing through pain...WOW.
2 After finishing this book the words that best come to mind are this neapolitan dialect saying "Chiagne e Fotte" ("cries while having sex").. used to point out someone who's constantly having things his way but still constantly complaining and whining in the hope of getting even more or avoiding to look bad. This book is a complete autocelebration, skips over every defect and find and excuse for everything that he might have not done as it should, from marrying Brooke Shields to losing a tennis match. There's no pathos, no passion, no real life in this autobiography.. it all looks and sounds and smells clean and nice and ... well as plastic.. The whole accounting of his life sounds so pathetically superficial and cliche' that it might make you feel sorry for the guy if you did not know that it was only a shell while the real life of Andre Agassi remains well hidden (maybe even to himself?).  The book is still interesting though, not really because of the fake Agassi's life but for the many anecdotes and particular about the high level tennis world that everyone who's passionate about tennis will find interesting. Seeing the world of professional tennis with the eyes of one of the top athletes in this sport ever is actually the strong point of the book. The superficial and fake way that he talks about himself is worthless.. I understand that to be really , really open about own one persona is a luxury that almost no one cannot take without some shame and a lot of autoanalysis.... but then don't try to write an autobiography if you cannot stand that! So if you're passionate about tennis do read this book, you will find a lot of fascinating episodes about our favorite sport , maybe taking pleasure in watching one of Agassi's matches right after reading his description of that match.Just try not to vomit at the viscidity that Agassi showcases while talking about Sampras for example, when he insinuates that Sampras relationship with his wife is fake. If he had the courage to say it openly at least you could give him the credit for being open and straghtforward.. but no, he just viscidly insinuates.. Same for the one dollar tip story.. it really makes Agassi look like a sore, livid, invidious loser.  Talking about fake, how about  his own relationship with Brooke Shields? But no, that wasn't fake..it just seem to evaporate because of destiny.... and how about his second marriage with Steffi Graf, described as a perfect beauty (sure with a nose as big as her racket and  a guy's face..) with a "halo" of goodness and honesty (he must be talking about the halo you get when you evade millions in taxes..or when you flirt with another man while your boyfriend is at home.. and you make sure your new relationship is solid before dumping the old boyfriend ...).Stll a progress from his father, that summing up from Agassi's stories was nothing but a violent, idiotic prick. And please, do yourself a favour and skip the final chapter where Agassi finishes his autocelebration with the wonders of his school and how much he has helped the kids and how much education matters and in reality about how much the poor kids has to suffer being lectured and indoctrinated about wearing uniforms, respect for authority and importance of education from a guy how has always used clothing to attract attention, had never any respect for anyone and fought to have no education. I guess after finishing his youth as a superficial, spoiled kid who could have everything easy thanks to his talent for tennis and meeting Nelson Mandela he figured.. why not trying to be a "plastic nelson mandela" when I grow up?His big, expressionless face pic on the book cover says it all... Andre Agassi: Chiagne e Fotte.
5 A fan of Agassi for all of his career, I learned a lot about his feelings and early life that I'd never heard before, and I gained more respect for not forgetting where he came from and for his efforts to improve educating minority children.
4 Although I usually review fiction on Amazon, I am a huge tennis fan and had to read Open.  I have been to the US Open several times and was in the audience for Agassi's last match.  I am definitely an Agassi fan but moreso of Bald Agassi than Young Rebel Agassi.The first section of the book is fascinating where he describes his obsessed father and the Bolleteri Academy.  He also describes how he hustles tennis for money at an early age.  There'a a great anecdote where he plays football great Jim Brown for money. This was when he was 9.  The childhood part of the book is, for me, the most compelling.I don't think there can be many spoiler warnings since all the big things have come out in the press.I won't go through the story detail by detail but will say that many of the anecdotes are interesting and if you're a big tennis fan, the lengthy match descriptions are very good.On the positive side, I like that Agassi talks about people that he dislikes or feels have not treated him well and doesn't whitewash things.  These people include Michael Chang, Jim Courier (a bit) and Thomas Muster.  He has special disdain for Jimmy Connors.  Agassi wishes the adoring fans could really know the Jimmy Connors in the locker room.  He also has a strong dislike for Boris Becker.  Agassi is a bit thin skinned and Becker makes comments that Agassi never really forgives him for.His comments on Sampras are respectful and honest.  He and others clearly never thought Sampras would amount to much.  He is definitely in awe of Federer's ability.On the negative side, the book is overwritten.  The real writer flowers it up far too much and even though Agassi is a very intelligent man, the words sometimes don't feel like his.  When he writes about understanding the "calculus of my psyche", it doesn't really ring true.  I wish it was a little less technically well written and a little more Andre.This is mandatory reading for tennis fans and would also be of interest to others.  It's far better and more honest than most sports (auto)biographies.I definitely recommend it
4 Definitely held my attention. So well written. I was continuallywondering how Agassi became such a compelling story teller. Than Icame to the end and Agassi says he had help writing the book.Even if his help said he didn't want credit the credit should have beengiven in the beginning of the book. It's like food poisoning after a great meal.All said and done the book is a fascinating read. Highly recommended.
5 I really enjoyed this book. I play tennis recreationaly and am a fan of tennis to begin with, but this book trancends just the tennis aspect. It's a story of a father living vicarously through his son and the damage that does to the entire family even though this son was successful. It shows the power of the mind at the top level of competition.When you think you'll lose, you will and vice versa. It goes into great depth about how hard it is to find your own identity after working so hard to create one and at the same time hide one. Just all in all a great book about tennis and coming of age in the spotlight. Very well written and Agassi's memory is great.
4 I never had much interest in tennis but I found this book to be a great story and well written.Robert E. Milliken author of Stupid In Montana As America
5 I picked this book up and did not put it down until I finished. I rarely read anything but fiction, but bought this because some friends of mine raved about it. It's my turn to rave. I laughed and cried and rooted and cheered, sometimes aloud. What I liked best was his brutal honesty. I had just finished another very famous tennis player's book and though I enjoyed it very much, it read, compared to Andre's scorcher, like a very long, carefully edited press release. Andre Agassi bared everything in this tell ALL. I learned a lot about life from this book centered around a game. I think it even helped me to grow up a little. Thank you Andre.
4 Great read if you are a tennis fan.  Andre was very open and honest in presenting this book and would like to have read more.
5 Yes, open, candid and triumphant. Nothing hidden here. Andre Agassi bears it all in startling candor and detail. He broke my heart reading about his sad childhood. Amazing he could forgive his father for forcing his own dreams on his defenseless little boy. Hopefully this book will educate some ambitious parent this is not the way to treat a child and stop the madness. A wonderful chronicle I couldn't stop reading. Not a sports fan per se but we all know who Andre Agassi is and you won't be disappointed in your quest to know the real man. Glad he's found his life's path and happiness today. Would would believe he hated tennis. He'd make a great actor. Read it - you'll love it.  Thank  you,  Andre, for sharing this journey with us - it takes a lot of you-know-what to reveal our dirty little secrets and suffer the consequences publicly. Congrats to you for rising above it all and maintaining integrity.Roseann A. DeRosa
5 A very good book, very interesting and not only for tennis players, it was a great read. I even bought a copy to give someone as a present.
5 the book was very well written. quite surprising to find someone so successful in a sport could claim to hate it so much. i liked watching him as a tennis player and enjoyed reading his book.
5 I grew up watching Agassi play tennis.  I used to think he was so cool because he wasn't like the other tennis players-he seemed to do what he wanted and wore what he wanted.  He transcended tennis and became a bona fide celebrity, and many tennis spectators and fans thought he had everything made.  After reading his autobiography, nothing could be further from the truth.Tennis was hardwired into Agassi before he could even walk and talk.  His father drove him hard to be the tennis champion that his other children wouldn't become.  Tennis was so much a part of him that his formal education was stunted at an early age.  Although he never really liked tennis, he had a knack for it, and thus it defined his life.  Even when he wanted to quit, to walk away, he had nothing else to turn to, and therefore, always turned back to tennis.  Readers get to meet all the important people in Agassi's life, Gil Reyes, Perry, Brad Gilbert, Philly.  His relationship and its demise with Brooke Shields is written about.Most of the book reveals Agassi's mood during those times-sad, depressed, angry and frustrated.  There's a noticeable change in the story though, once he meets Steffi Graf.  I love the details of the courtship because it shows that Agassi is just like everyone else.  Since meeting Graf, Agassi's tune changes.  He's got the drive and determination to win tournaments, and his outlook on life is finally positive.Watching the Grand Slams, the sportscasters always seemed to make it out like the players were friends on and off the court, that there was mutual and genuine respect for everyone.  That cannot be further from the truth.  I loved Agassi's take on other players, including Courier, Chang, Becker, and even Sampras.  Who knew they weren't social buddies?  I loved this insider's perspective.There's so much to Agassi that the public never knew.  His memoir is unforgettable, but more than that, it is inspiring.  Even though we may feel like quitting, we may feel like we have no other options, there's always a silver lining, and there's always tomorrow.
4 First, the conclusion: if you have any interest in tennis then you should read this book.  While I will address its shortcomings, it is worthwhile with a lot of great information.  But it is also missing a LOT.Am I an Agassi fan?  No.  Do I respect his abilities and sensitivity as a person? Yes.  But this book is about the central theme of how he is so traumatized by his father who pushed him into something he hated and was ultra overbearing.  Never a word thanks for giving him this life, just trauma and hurt.  Enough already.  I'm tired of the thrown matches I've watched, the lack of heart, the open admission that a US Open loss to Sampras drove him to his tennis depths.  With Agassi's educational background and lack of interest, he'd be parking cars in Vegas if it weren't for the trauma his Dad put him through.  Thanks Dad.  There Andre, I said it for you.Now with that off my chest, like him or hate him, he was a compelling star.  Probably got more attention than he deserved, particularly early, but we don't pick who the spotlight likes and in this case it is Andre.  Andre does a great job of giving an introspective look at his life and thought process and it's a compelling read.  But there is so much missing.  For example in his Bolleteri time, no mention of sharing a room or time with Courier at all.  Only when years later Courier interviews him does Andre mention Courier as being at Bolleteri's with him.  Same with Sampras.  While he does mention him much more, there is as much derogatory written as not.  Andre was it necessary to slam Pete, another lightly educated individual with too much money too soon, for tipping so poorly?  And what's with the diatribe about how until the 90s winning the most Grand Slams wasn't as important as winning all four.  Nice, Andre.  It clearly isn't bothering you that Pete won more was it?  Another complaint while we're on tennis is the quickness with which he moves thru these stories.  No mention of detail thoughts of his most famous matches like the US Open point that was turned in to a Nike commercial or the 4 tiebreak match with Pete at the Open.The book really is better when it moves away from tennis.  This is a book really about his interpersonal relationships.  Gil Reyes comes across as a great individual, a surrogate father that takes Andre under his wing, never questions his antics and gives unwavering support.  Steffi Graf also comes across as someone you are happy to see is a real class person as does his brother Phil in a smaller role.  Brad Gilbert is featured in a big way and also comes across better than I expected based upon other stories I have heard from some trainers on tour.So, for all the shortcomings of the author and this book, I must endorse it enthusiastically as an enjoyable read.  Like him or hate him, and I'm still mad I had to sit through his tanked match to Luke Jenson in the first round in Memphis, the spotlight loves Andre.  So Andre, enjoy it as it is fast moving on to others.
5 One of the most interesting and easiest to read autobiographies. Highly recommended even if you are not a tennis fan.
5 this was so different than what I thought it would be, it was a great read, I would recommend it to anyone that is a fan of tennis and remembers the days that Americans ruled the men's tennis world. .
5 Agassi's 'Open' is rightly titled. It's more than a tale of his accomplishment, actually, far from it. Honest - reveals his lies. His confusion. His follies - yes, drugs and all. How does a player feel in the middle - during crucial points - before crucial matches. Thinks about different opponents. What else does he go through that we can't see. How important is to "not think".And I will always remember his farewell last speech at the U.S. Open that brought me to tears, and I am not even his fan. In between, he shares how his relationship with Brooke Shields started and ended with faxes!! How was he able to woo Steffi Graph, after a string of 'No's'!!But above all, this is a story of Agassi we don't know. He hates tennis, really. He is a private person, really. He doesn't like to do new things. He loves people close to him. Besides his family, Gil, Perry, J.P. and Brad are only other important people in his life. How he got worried about Gil's daughter and how he fixed an AC in her room, and put a balloon under her head to make her feel better- when he was supposed to be in an award ceremony with Brooke. He chose family over limelight.Also, he is working towards a school and how having a higher motive than himself has helped him outperform himself - be it for Olympics or for his school's children. I was transforming as I was reading about his school and how big a difference it is making in lives of the less privileged.In the end, I kept clicking next even after the scroll bar on my kindle read 100%....I longed more...
5 Open cements Andre's place in my mind and heart as my favorite tennis player / personality of all time.  His openess, honesty, and compassion are commendable.  I appreciate his dissatisfaction with his vocation, as it is something that I think most of share, if not all of us at times.  It goes to show that everything is relative.  It was great to journey with Andre through his life and get to know him better.  And it should remind us all that not everything is at it seems.  Bravo to Andre.
4 Someone should make a movie about Andre Agassi&#8217;s lifelong experiences, starting with his attempts to fight the &#8220;dragon&#8221; on the tennis court. How did he survive the tantrums of his tennis-loving father who stopped at nothing to make Agassi the No. 1 player in the world, starting when Agassi was very young? How did Agassi not burn himself out on the sport that eventually made him a millionaire, unlike his more easily discouraged siblings? Is it any wonder the guy pierced his ear, grew out his thinning hair, drank alcohol, and gave up on himself at times?Most important of all: How did Agassi&#8217;s father get the job of stringing racquets for Jimmy Connors?I&#8217;m not sure what the answer is to the last question, but I know how Agassi eventually reached his tennis goals: He had the same fiery drive of his crazy, hard-driving dad. Agassi is one of the most driven people I&#8217;ve ever read about, but he&#8217;s also a sensitive, poetic soul who seemed to cling to people who made a difference in his life. Agassi&#8217;s trainer, his brother, his tennis coaches, a few friends, heck, even his dad, all became lifelong tennis influences who more often than not steered his career in a good direction.Both tennis and non-tennis fans alike who have followed Agassi&#8217;s romances may enjoy reading about his high-profile relationships with Brooke Shields and Stephanie Graf. Agassi unabashedly relates how these women shaped his life; however, being the gentleman he is, Agassi holds back on the kiss-and-tell details that other celebrities aren&#8217;t so willing to forgo talking about.Agassi is a human and flawed guy, a man of the people who is far from a country-club ex-tennis star. He&#8217;s been divorced, he&#8217;s done drugs, and he&#8217;s been depressed. As a youngster he was a hotshot hitter who zinged his way into his share of Grand Slam finals (not winning them). Through the years he&#8217;s slogged his way through his share of tournaments, unfocused and sometimes not caring much whether he won or lost. Toward the end he was unstoppable, a revitalized force on the courts and an incredible success story. Like the yo-yo upswing and downswing of a typical life&#8212;which somehow makes life worth living&#8212;&#8220;Open&#8221; highlights the good times and bad times and demonstrates what it takes to become the best in a sport that is cutthroat.Perhaps most inspiring of all, Agassi plugged away with abandon in a profession he hated, realizing that millions of us do the same thing every day. The work he and others have done to help underserved children attend the Andre Agassi College Preparatory is additionally moving. As he wound down his career with a renewed sense of purpose and a new family, Agassi became a tennis player who finally found salvation outside of winning and losing between white lines on a court.The plethora of points, matches, locations, wins, and losses eventually become a tad monotonous toward the end of the book, but that&#8217;s okay&#8212;&#8220;Open&#8221; is a definite winner.
4 Andre Agassi is an outlier. His autobiography `Open' appears to be a frank and honest narrative from the heart of champion.  Malcolm Gladwell (author of Outliers) would be glad to read this - it substantiates a lot of what Malcolm has wrote on what creates outliers.I don't usually read autobiographies - so it is difficult for me to compare this with others. Nevertheless I would not hesitate to recommend this book to readers - it is inspirational and has many lessons for all professionals. What does it take to be successful and then how do you handle success? Agassi's life is a lesson to all of us.It is so surprising that the media initially highlighted Agassi's confession of his `drug experience' when the book was published. However, thankfully that is only a few pages and in no way is the important part of this book. Everybody makes mistakes and hopefully Andre got his `catharsis' by the confession. But there are much more important  insights one can learn from this book. I would invite all to read this and find out for yourselves.The best confession that I liked is when Agassi says in the last page of the book that he `was late in discovering the magic of books'  and that is what he would put near the top of his list on what he would want his children to avoid. I wonder why none of the media quoted this?
5 A Must ReadAndre Agassi is one of the most important and a famous name in the sports world, as he changed the way tennis is viewed. Being an avid tennis fan, I came into this book with the expectations of a dry, boring book filled historical facts and events, which I thoroughly enjoy. But I misinterpreted the term autobiography. The benefit of an autobiography, as opposed to a biography, is that it gives a more in-depth understanding of each event. For example, take the 1990 French Open, where he lost to Andres Gomes in a four set battle, and that&#8217;s it. But &#8220;Open&#8221; shows the readers a different perspective. Agassi&#8217;s hairpiece was falling off, and it distorted his pregame mindset. As Agassi states, &#8220;Warming up before the match, I pray. Not for a win, but for a hairpiece to stay on.&#8221; (Agassi 152). In addition to giving a different perspective of Agassi&#8217;s matches, the book also gives the reader a different perspective of Andre Agassi himself. It was thought that Andre Agassi was a loud mouth, attention-seeking individual with no morals, when that was actually the complete opposite of his true character. Andre was actually extraordinarily shy, and he hated the spotlight. All his antics throughout the years were an attempt to find himself, even though he never truly did.After completing the book, I give it 5 stars out of 5. This may be my new favorite book, but hold up! That doesn&#8217;t mean to run out and get the book. Tennis is my favorite sport, and Agassi is one of my all-time favorite players. If you&#8217;re anything like myself, I HIGHLY recommend this book. But if tennis isn&#8217;t for you, then neither is this book.
5 This is one of the best autobiographies I have ever read.  It is beautifully written. I could not put it down.  I read it one whole day off work when I should have been out and about! His candor and honesty are refreshing and I found the book incredibly inspiring.  Every human has a story of trials and difficulty and it is an inspiration to read about someone who has the courage to work through, persevere and conquer and never along the way forget to lend a hand to someone that may need it.I have heard many stories as a social worker and therapist and I believe that Mr. Agassi's story will help so many to help themselves and reach down inside and rebuild the house from the bottom up when it becomes necessary.  I am still working on my own foundation and I found some gems of inspiration in this book!  I am so happy for Mr. Agassi that he persevered and that his has the love of his life (that they have each other) and a beautiful and loving family and for their work with children and education.  I hope all who read this will donate to the school as well as buy the book itself.  Thank you Andre Agassi for having the courage to be you.  Sarah Gould Jackson
5 For tennis fans, this book is a must to know the back stage of tennis, and learn how Andre got prepared to play at a superb level, since he was a 5 or 6 years old boy up to the age of 30 years old approx. when he retired from the courts !
5 Andre Agassi opens his mind, his heart and his life for everyone to see. great read, honest, straightforward and informative (I didn't know Jimmy Connors was such a dick!). This will take you back to Pete Sampras, Ivan lendl, Boris Becker, Patrick Rafter... but most especially Steffi Graff.
5 For any Agassi fan, this is a must-read. It's captivating, front to back - offering us a new window into his life, his career, and the industry of tennis as a whole. Being Agassi's age, I feel that we've grown up together - I discovered tennis the year he hit the national scene, when we were teens. I'm also a huge Steffi fan, so I was particularly interested in hearing the story of his courtship of her, as well as the many match play-by-play recalls, and his true feelings on Chang and Sampras. Moving, funny, engrossing, entertaining - extremely well done.
5 This book was sooo informative.  Here is a man who people thought was just out to make a crazy name for himself, when all the while he was trying to find himself.  Makes one realize that all exceptionally talented people did not just become that way without lots of hard work.  Also, the appearance of confidence but all the while filled with doubt.  Gee they are actually human!!
5 I had absolutely no expectations, good or bad about this memoir.  Admittedly, I don't "follow" the tennis world and only knew a little bit about Andre Agassi - mainly that he had a "bad boy" reputation and that he had once been married to Brooke Shields.  What this book showed me is that there is an amazing depth and sensitivity about this man that I don't think anyone ever watching a match or reading the papers would ever have gotten to know.He laid it on the line here and seemed to be honest about his character flaws, including a brief usage of crystal meth.  Although I think this was one of the tidbits that was widely trumpeted about this book, there is so much more to both the man and his story.  He takes us on a journey of the spirit, and he is indeed a man who is aware of himself and his responsibility to the universe. His relationship with God is "up close and personal" (really, the way it should be), and we watch as he grows both as a tennis player and as a man.Although he is gentle with those around them, almost making excuses for any of the problems his friends and employees may have had, he is brutally hard on himself, not surprisingly.Through the stages of his life, we watch as he hates tennis, is his own worst enemy, begins to find himself and when he is comfortable with himself, his game and his life all improve.  This was very, very well written and it is one of the better memoirs I've read.I especially enjoyed the spiritual renaissance that shows him giving back to those around him culminating with his non-profit foundation and his incredible involvement with a school in an at risk area.Although tennis naturally plays a big part in this book, ultimately, it becomes a metaphor for Andre Agassi's life.  I feel honored to have been allowed to see a private and special part of this man's life.
1 He likes to insult others, I feel sorry to see Steffi married to this bully. The book was put together to make him look good, and made to read like fiction. But he is mean to everyone but himself. I do not buy it, I believe the stories in this book are from one perspective only and I would like to hear the perspectives of others who had to cross his path.
4 This book was fascinating. If you enjoy tennis and like Andre then you will enjoy this one. He is not afraid to print what has happened in his life.
5 I was a big fan of Agassi in his playing days and therefore, I had planned to read this book for a long time. The pre-release media blitz only increased my curiosity. I loved this engrossing book and I would recommend it to anyone - tennis fan or not -  without hesitation. It is filled with vignettes, each of which will strike a chord with people who are at similar intersections in their life.The point that resonated the most with me was a question asked by an interviewer to Agassi during the publicity rounds that he made. The interviewer, quizzing him about his crystal meth use in 1997, asks Agassi (quote from memory), "You were a top tennis player (at one point the best in the world), you had won 3 tennis majors, you had millions of dollars in your bank account and you had a Hollywood actress as your wife. 99.9% of people around the world would jump at these choices. And, yet you say you were depressed. Isn't there a great life lesson in that story?" In response, Agassi says (again quote from memory), " Success isn't being the number one player in the world, it is being at peace with yourself. If you have all these things that people would jump at and yet feel empty, then it just throws a magnifying glass on your problems." I am just quoting one example that I liked, but there are numerous similar lessons in this book that we rarely sit back and figure out for ourselves in the midst of everyday madness.The relationship with his father and his childhood is portrayed brilliantly (Moehringer is a seriously good writer). People who drive their kids towards some perceived gold should read this book to get some perspective of the darkness that could lie in store behind the glitter. How lack of education curtailed Agassi's choices and led to financial worries - at the age of 16 - before making it big is a particularly poignant story. The present tense brings out the feelings - anger, hatred, confusion, vacillation, love - brilliantly. An open, honest book that is one of a kind.
5 When I first got this book, I wondered if like many books I "read", I would just skim through it and then put it down, especially since it is over 300 pages. But I could not stop reading this book. I yearned for the free time that I would have to read it. Agassi's honesty is captivating, his sense of humor wonderful. This book will tug at your heart in a unique way. Even if you aren't really a tennis fan, you will be amazed at how someone managed to excel at something that he absolutely HATED; yes, he really did hate tennis. This is a great read, and the title is truly fitting because he is brutally honest in the book about his ups, his downs and the in betweens. I was a huge Agassi fan before I read this book, and now my respect for him just went up 3 or 4 notches. He is a role model for me, not because he is perfect, but because he dared to be honest in a world where we place so much emphasis on pseudo-perfection.
4 I don't usually read sports biographies, but Andre Agassi focuses less on tennis and more on the human side of things in a compellingly dramatic story. The first third is probably the best concerning his childhood and teen years before he became famous. The arc of Agassi's life is not unlike Charles Dickens BildungsromanDavid Copperfield: the young hero with an abusive father who is sent off to boarding school with a wicked headmaster, whom he eventually triumphs over to become his own man; the failed first marriage to the girl above his class, followed by the second marriage to the girl more like himself whom he should have married in the first; the cast of colorful characters - some so good they are nearly magical, others so evil they are like devils. Like Dickens, Agassi sees the world as fated, the good guys always win in the end, and the bad guys ultimately get their due. Agassi sees himself as born with a golden horseshoe (born lucky).Aggasi almost breaks out of the old literary mold, of a fated fairy tale universe, with a true modern memoir, by revealing that he actually hated tennis and once did drugs. Almost. He ends the book happily playing tennis and it's never entirely convincing how much he really hated what tennis has done for him, what is has brought him, including his family. It's a Hollywood/Dickensian ending of redemption and renewal. Just as modernism taught us to be skeptical of the narrator in literature, this memoir sports a lot of style in the interest of telling a neatly packaged and compelling story - ironically, overt style is a charge he dodged early in his professional career ("Image is Everything"). Indeed, the more compelling the story, and the more neatly it fits the old literary molds, the more skeptical we should be. Of course everything in the book we assume must be true, there is no lack of credibility - it's not what he says, but what is missing.Beyond any pedantic "literary criticism", Agassi really is a good guy, and has proven it with his philanthropy work, he is a role model for all of us on how to improve our own lives by improving the lives of others. That is the true message of the book and Agassi has only just begun to tell that story. This is a highly entertaining book and probably at the top of the genre that should find a wide audience beyond the sports fan.
5 An exquisitely detailed life story.  A behind-the-scenes page-turner that you'll not be able to put down, with rich and colorful descriptions about Agassi's difficult childhood, the women in his life and the Herculean effort made by Agassi and his team of mentors to create a first-rate tennis champion.
5 Though a lot of tennis was watched during 90s, I never knew much about Agassi & his life..the most personal detail known was that he married Stefi Graf...but then this book gives the insights into the life that was a roller-coaster ride that just enthrals you....a must read book for all ages....
4 I love autobiographies and biographies and I have to say this was one of the most well written autobiographies.  He holds nothing back in opening up about his life and his feelings towards tennis and his hair.  On the cover you can tell he's gone bald and he did not go into that great night of baldness so easily. What I like the most about his book is the way he delves into the meaning of events and circumstances in his life. At his age most people are not able to do that.  It's a winner
5 was told this was great and it did not disappoint.  as gripping as any thriller, loved it.  was great to understand a bit about the psyche of tennis and that of a tennis great.  Love him.
5 I love Andre and to read his tennis journey just blew me away! Really miss seeing him play on the ATP tour!
5 If you think the life of a professional tennis player is dull, you're couldn't be further from the truth. I knew several of the women on the tour back in the golden days and it was quite the opposite. And so it is with this new autobiography by Andre Agassi.You may or may not consider Andre Agassi the best tennis player who ever lived and played in his time, but he surely was the one who attracted the most attention to himself. And he knows it.Like most tennis pros, he started out as a teenage phenom. He looked different, dressed different and --- well --- was different.Agassi broke a lot of rules in his day. But, when compared to the rules athletes break today, they seem quite minor.I enjoyed this book. If you love tennis as I do, you'll want to read what Agassi says about his life and times.Highly recommended.- Susanna K. Hutcheson
5 Very well written and a must read memoir if you enjoy reading [auto]biographies. Even more so if you love tennis because you will get a snippet on many players in Andre's own words. I like the style of writing and as many reviewers have mentioned, you can't stop once you start. Highly inspiring in general to all spectrum of age groups.
4 Would give it 5 stars but the hero worshiping of Steffi became a bit tedious towards the end.  All in all it was an interesting read.
4 Some books I read are entertaining. Some books give me a new perspective on certain facets of the world. Some books give me the ability to brag to others that I read them. Open did all of this. (Except that bragging bit. By the way, did I mention I am reading Thomas Khun too?) I expected as much, but I was surprised to find some bigger questions than the subject matter: tennis and its most (im)famous protagonist. A book that entertained and taught me a bit about tennis would've still been great. Tennis has played a huge role in my life: it taught me self-confidence; taught me how to win. It is also the means of blessings I hold most dear: a loving father, close friendship, and opportunity to work hard at something and get better at it. When I remember having fun as a kid, I remember tennis.So naturally, my experience was very different than Agassi's. He was forced to the tennis. It is like he woke up and he was surrounded in a tennis matrix. Fear held him in a like a prisoner who is kept in the middle of the desert with the knowledge that his escape would only lead to certain death. So while he was given much, and made into a super athlete his mental state was left very fragile by his pathological father.It is difficult for me to consider big questions from books off of the New York Times bestseller list because I'm aware of the motivations of publishers, the role of the ghostwriter, and the economic gains that everyone can enjoy from a bestseller. This forced me to ask myself throughout the book: how authentic is Andre's really? While writing a sports autobiography like this is certainly fresh and inviting, it is also a great potential marketing strategy. Not only that, but as someone who desperately wanted the opportunities that Andre was given: the chance this practice tennis full time at the Bollettieri Academy, all the equipment, travel and advantages that a young aspiring tennis player could wish for, I found myself both jealous and disdainful of his lack of thankfulness.However, despite its potential flaws, I have to say that I like the book for three reasons. The first two are pretty simple: it brought back and augmented memories foundational to my childhood, and the book is very well written. Beyond this, the book was something more than entertaining. Andre was not just cataloging how he became a great tennis player or what the life as a great tennis player was like, he continually asked and tried to answer the question: what is success and what is life's overarching purpose?This question was unavoidable: how could someone who just finished second in a tournament like the French Open be launched into a deep and abiding depression? He was the number two tennis player in the world! Few in history have had that honor. Simply losing one match was enough to crush him. Was this because of the fragile emotional state by his one-sided upbringing, or does this speak to something deeper that afflicts us all?My initial reaction to this was that Andre was a first-class whiner. Why couldn't he be happy with taking home a $50,000 check instead of taking home $100,000 check or whatever tennis players get from these big tournaments? However, as the book went on I was forced to think through and try to understand how similar this struggle is for all of us.I was reminded of discussions with senior leaders in the US military who mentioned colleagues of theirs who retired bitter and weary, crippled from their lack of ability to get that fourth star. Or how about political campaigns? The scale of loss and massive defeat that surrounds the losing nominee (and their millions of dollars spent) is staggering. Perhaps the first of Buddha's four Noble truths is unavoidable:To live means to suffer, because the human nature is not perfect and neither is the world we live in. During our lifetime, we inevitably have to endure physical suffering such as pain, sickness, injury, tiredness, old age, and eventually death; and we have to endure psychological suffering like sadness, fear, frustration, disappointment, and depression. Although there are different degrees of suffering and there are also positive experiences in life that we perceive as the opposite of suffering, such as ease, comfort and happiness, life in its totality is imperfect and incomplete, because our world is subject to impermanence. This means we are never able to keep permanently what we strive for, and just as happy moments pass by, we ourselves and our loved ones will pass away one day, too.Without forgiveness, perhaps without love, I think this does describe the surrounding tissue of a life in this world. And that is what I found this book most wanting. While I was glad to be faced with the question of what will I center my life around? What do I consider success? I was not satisfied with his answer: giving to others. While giving to others certainly is a source of the deepest joy I have known, can it be done without experiencing forgiveness personally? And without this forgiveness, is happiness truly attainable even if one finds the Steffi Graf of their dreams?As the parent of young children, it is interesting to follow what pulls them through each day, each week, each month. They are always excited about something. Sometimes it's their birthday, or school the next day, their smile always has a very visible reason behind it. Throughout the book I found myself wanting Andre to smile. Not laugh for joy from the elation of finally winning a grand slam or defeating Boris Becker after the summer of revenge, but to smile because he deeply enjoyed something in and of itself. A quote from Screwtape letters is foremost in my mind here:On your own showing you first of all allowed the patient to read a book he really enjoyed, because he enjoyed it and not in order to make clever remarks about it to his new friends. In the second place, you allowed him to walk down to the old mill and have tea there--a walk through country he really likes, and taken alone. In other words you allowed him two real positive Pleasures. Were you so ignorant as not to see the danger of this? The characteristic of Pains and Pleasures is that they are unmistakably real, and therefore, as far as they go, give the man who feels them a touchstone of reality. (Letter XIII)All this forced me to ask myself why I smile and when I smile. I smile when I think about finishing various projects at work or about having a good workout. I joyfully look forward to moment when I can sit down and read a book, or write this a review like this. But on reflection reasons why I smile are much less important than reasons why I cry. I have cried while holding my daughter in my arms while I think about her future. I'm overcome with feeling of being blessed -- so excited to have someone to give to, to love. Excited to do so from a position of being forgiven and therefore from a position that is able to forgive all others. As tears carefully creep down my cheeks I feel, in a moment, at total peace, and in that moment I worship my creator.But Andre, he never let us into those things that made him smile (except for his trip to South Africa to meet Nelson Mandela) and, of course, Steffi Graf. In Open, two criteria were necessary for an event to be included in the book: it was either something that brought him great disappointment or something that created national news, which most often had something unknown and disappointing behind it -- often a bit of his angst that he was hiding from the cameras. True, the end is uplifting and perhaps there was a smile on his face as he traded volleys with Stephanie. The story just felt incomplete without forgiveness. We were left with the fear of the Dragon but not the forgiveness to his father. We were left with the legacy of angry sportswriters without a cathartic sense that he understood their need to play to the crowd just like he did. We have is broken relationship with Brooke Shields, not forgiven just replaced by what he claims is his ultimate fulfilling relationship with Steffi Graf.The other major theme that Open highlighted was the messy nature of reality. I seem to have a Panglossian notion of how two elite tennis players come together on a court -- imagining a degree of precision and perfect preparation commiserate with the high-stakes game they're playing. It's funny how events in my life which seems so clean-cut and simple were messy in their execution. Just like Pete Sampras crippled by cramps before a stunning victory over Andre I often find myself needing to overcome insurmountable odds to make an event happen. Why isn't anything easy? Is this a case for everyone? Shakespeare certainly thought so.Enough of the big picture questions, Open still contained a great deal of information on how the world works, and for that alone it's a highly recommended read. So many events that capture the world's attention were explained from a fascinating inner perspective -- good reminders to us all that all is not as it seems. It was fascinating to watch Andre catalog his rise to fame and its accompanying transformation on what his life was like. Though they had so much in common, clearly, his rise was about as different as possible from that of Brooke Shields, who essentially grew up being famous. It seemed to be his Wimbledon victory which took him from famous in tennis circles to to a household name and the story started to take place in places like Kevin Costner's yacht instead of on a tennis court in Florida.So highly recommend: whether you're looking for a chance to peek in the lives of the rich and famous, a reinterpretation of one of Tennis' most memorable stars, a chance to understand what the American dream really is, or even looking to ponder some of life's biggest questions. Whatever their decision, Agassi and J. R. Moehringer decided to make this a different kind of sports autobiography, one that opened a life and provides us ample opportunities to see ourselves in the mirror and ask whatever questions we see when that happens.
5 Deep into the book, we've heard years of stories, insights, and tennis matches, and Andre is still only around 25 years old. It's easy to forget how young he was at so many key points, both successes and various struggles. The candid tales ring quite true, helped considerably no doubt by his co-author. I hope it's true that the co-author modestly requested a mention at the end, and wasn't pushed aside.Agassi seems to be telling the truth throughout, such as in his relationships with his family, other players, and his courtship and marriages to Brooke Shields and Stefanie Graf. That has a touch of irony, because of the two big "lies" during his career: masking his dislike of tennis and lying about his drug use. Discussion of the book often has emphasized the drug story, when in reality it's a relatively brief stretch that (to me) doesn't fit front and center. He clearly lucked out in his maneuver, and credits others for helping him snap out of it. There has always been something particularly moving about a child tackling a very difficult or life-threatening situation with courage that can put adults to shame, and Agassi is no exception, thanks to Gil's daughter and other epiphanies.A casual fan like me will recall some of the career moments, starting with the precocious teen and his "image is everything" ads. (I wonder what happened to those walls he splattered with paint.) Agassi gives a nice balance between tennis and personal life, as there was plenty of dramatic material for both. Without knowing the results of various tournaments, such as which Slams he won and when, the tension of 'will he win?' added to the spice for me. Of course, I knew he was going to come back from his various low points, but not always how and when.Finally, for an autobiography, Agassi is generous with praise and credit for those people who had major impact on his life and career. Without them, well, anything could have happened and he easily could have been an early flame-out who disappeared along with so many other prodigies.
5 I have read all sorts of tennis biographies.  I am looking at my bookshelf right now and see Jimmy Connors Saved my Life (ok, not exactly a bio of Jimmy), John McEnroe, Brad Gilbert, Boris Becker, Pete Sampras and James Blake.  This book is by far the best.  Maybe it is because Andre was just more interesting.  Anyway, if you want to read about the life of a tennis star this is your book.  In fact, even if you are not into tennis, you will still like this book.
5 I guess pretty obviously this is Andre Agassi's autobiography covering his childhood, tennis career and marriage(s)The book starts with a bang. Agassi's last match is intense as they come, and I suppose thrown in first before we cover his hundreds of other matches (don't worry he doesn't detail every single one, but there are many).When we backtrack to Agassi's childhood we are shown a surprisingly sensitive young man driven my a determined (perhaps demented) father who wants nothing other than Agassi to be the best tennis player ever, never mind that Agassi has begun to loathe the sport.A feeling which eventually leads to one of the best parts (in my opinion) where Agassi debates continuing with a sport he hates, and realises than us mortal commoners work jobs we hate every day just to get by, let alone earn millions.Highlights of the biography include Agassi's almost bizarre marriage to Brooke Shields, his brillant descriptions of other tennis players and his honesty in regards in the low points of his career.Before reading this autobio, I had no idea just how grueling the sport could be both physically and mentally and despite his obvious flaws I found myself admiring Agassi deeply.There are alot of lessons to be learnt reading this book, some are blunt, some can be found between the words. As long as you can handle Agassi's amazing self confidence (ego) bursting through the pages of the book, and his lack of quotation marks, this is an excellent book.
4 Who would ever have guessed. I won't say much more because it will give some of the gist of the story away. But well worth the read.
5 Andre Agassi captivated me in this autobiography. I had no interest in reading about tennis, I had less interest in reading about a person who played tennis.The book opens at the end, his last tennis match of his career. When I was done with the first free chapter download on my Kindle, I had to read the rest.Andre Agassi is open in this book and that's what makes it more than a book about a guy who was a tennis great. It is the story of Andre Agassi- his hatred of tennis; his tough relationship with his father; his life changing relationship with his trainer, Gil.But the absolute highlight for me, was reading of his never ending love affair with his wife Steffi Graf. When I closed the book, I went straight to youtube to see the two of them in interviews; and their love is a beautiful thing.
5 Wow, this is a raw view of Agassi's fame and more.  I had no idea about his family and life.  It was fun sharing details about his relationships and humorous fun on the court.  He drug use was surprising and I thought he really was honest throughout the book.I would recommend this book to sports fans and just anyone wanting an interesting story to read.
5 This is a very heartful, interesting book by one of Tennis' Greats.  He has given back to the world more than he took and I encourage Tennis fans and others to read this book.
5 I highly recommend this book to tennis lovers and non-tennis lovers alike.  Andre Agassi truly does "open" up to us in this autobiography with elegance, sophistication, and piercing insight.  It is really a book about a lost childhood, sacrifice, internal struggles, and, ultimately, growing up.  Tennis, in many ways, mirrors life.  On the court, as in life, you can be your worst enemy.  Andre takes us through his personal journey from insecurity and self-sabotage to finding his own identity, love, and becoming the author of his life.  And for tennis fans...it is also an interesting inside look at the world of professional tennis during the '80s, '90s, and 2000s.  But don't expect too much lurid gossip...Aggasi is a class act on and off the court.
5 Know Thyself.  Easier said than done.  And Andre Agassi is incredibly open about how little he has known himself across the course of his life.  There's an irony here, because he seems to know about everything that is going on around him and to remember it with incredible clarity.  There is another irony in that he was an iconic figure in our culture - one whom we, in my generation, know - one with whom we feel familiar - whether from his play, from his packaging, first with Nike and then with Canon, or from his star studded relationships, first with Brooke Shields and later with Steffi (or, as she prefers, Stephanie) Graf.  How can someone who is so well known not be known to himself?  And, as he gains self knowledge, how far has he come?  These are questions that we ask with our analysands all the time.  They are also questions that we should know will contain a great deal of uncertainty in their answers.  Some of the uncertainty will come from not knowing how much of the memoir is Agassi's, it is a collaborative effort with a Pulitzer Prize winning writer - but mostly it will come because we are not collaboratively engaged, ourselves, with this person, despite his implicit promise to be open. That said, the form of the writing appears to be somewhat psychoanalytic in the first step in the writing was for Agassi and his co-author to engage in long taped conversations about his life and to transcribe them.  They then worked and reworked them to become the book, but it still retains the feeling of narrative - of a tale told to a confidante.  We are able to listen in - even if we can't engage, analytically, in the dialogue.Before delving into analysis, let me first say that the narrator of this story is an incredibly likable guy.  He tells his story well and I would find it entertaining even if I had no idea who Brooke Shields was and hadn't seen him playing tennis on TV for over a decade.  This guy comes across as someone who would be fun to hang out with.  In part this is because he doesn't &#34;know&#34; himself.  He's not filled with the kind of self-love that is off-putting.  The voice of this memoir is very similar to the voice of Bill Clinton in his memoir &#34;My Life&#34;.  There is an aw-shucks quality of &#34;Can you believe that this happened to me?&#34;  And I think for Andre, more than for Bill, though it is a bit the case for both of them, it comes from a place of being the golden child....To read the rest of this review, google the reluctant psychoanalyst Agassi
5 The big buzz that greeted the publication of Andre Agassi's autobiography Open last November was that it included his revelation of using crystal meth during his playing career, getting caught in a drug test, and lying his way out of a possibly career-killing suspension.In my teens and 20's, I followed professional tennis quite a bit.  I still watch some of the big tournaments, particularly Wimbledon and the US Open.  I remember Agassi's early career, saw how he got lapped by Pete Sampras and other players, remember the "Image is Everything" commercials, the hair, the Las Vegas playboy image.  I remember some pretty harsh portraits in places like Sports Illustrated, remember him winning Wimbledon and doing almost nothing else of note for several years, then I remember when he re-emerged from virtual oblivion with a shaved head, a new dedication to fitness, and what seemed to be a brand new game, how he started winning.  The latter half of Agassi's career is one of the great second acts in American sports history.Truthfully, Agassi was never one of my favorite players.  I preferred Sampras after his generally emotionless oncourt ways grew on me.  I admired Michael Chang's scrappiness and Jim Courier's scruffy affability.  And the player I liked most of all was Boris Becker.But I wanted to read Agassi's bio, and not just because of the stuff about crystal meth (which is actually only a pretty small slice of the book).  Something just told me it was going to be an interesting story.  I wanted to see how he portrayed his essential rebirth (although he doesn't even consider it as such).  I thought maybe there might be some interesting tidbits about other players.  I was still curious about his marriage to Brooke Shields.  A title like Open has promise -- you've got to figure it's going to be a pretty candid memoir.  I guess I wanted to see if he would like up to that promise or wuss out.Andre Agassi definitely does not wuss out with this book.  It's open, all right--there aren't a huge number of nuclear-strength bombshells, aside from the meth revelation, but the overall story he tells, woven from a long and winding journey beginning with the end of his career, leaping back to his youth, and coming full circle, is compelling, at times riveting, engrossing, and one of the best books I've read in quite awhile.He doesn't destroy other players or reveal anything particularly shocking about them--his description of his relationship with Sampras is interesting, but really more or less what I assumed from the available evidence.  He does reveal a surprisingly bitter rivalry with Becker that I didn't know much about, spurred in pretty large part by Agassi's onetime coach, Brad Gilbert.  He rails briefly against Chang's sanctimony.  But that's about it for other players.  And even when he clearly doesn't think much of the player as a person, he always compliments their game when it fits, even Becker's.  When he is beaten, he admits to it and doesn't make excuses.But what really makes the book is this: early on, Agassi writes "I play tennis for a living, even though I hate tennis, hate it with a dark and secret passion, and always have."It might be easy to look upon that revelation with scorn.  After all, here's a guy who has lived a luxurious life, become an international star and multimillionaire, lived a life that many millions would envy, thanks to a game that he claims to hate.To his credit, Agassi tackles that potential scorn head-on.  Shortly after he wins Wimbledon in 1992, his first Grand Slam title, and his celebrity hits a new peak, he recounts a meeting with the actor Kevin Costner:"[Costner] loves sports, follows them avidly, and assumes I do too.  I tell him shyly that I don't follow sports.  That I don't like them.How do you mean?I mean, I don't like sports.He laughs. You mean besides tennis?I hate tennis most of all.Right, right.  I guess it's a grind.  But you don't actually hate tennis."Even though the core assertion seems ludicrous, and Costner basically calls him on it, Agassi sticks to it through the rest of the book, through the ups and careening downs of his career, until recounting a turning point in 1997, after flaming out in the first round of a tournament in Stuttgart, Germany:"I hate tennis more than ever - but I hate myself more.  I tell myself, So what if you hate tennis? Who cares? All those people out there, all those millions who hate what they do for a living, they do it anyway.  Maybe doing what you hate, doing it well and cheerfully, is the point.  So you hate tennis.  Hate it all you want.  You still need to respect it - and yourself."I love that.  It seems pretty simple, but it's still so direct, so perfect - open.  That's when the book, which I was already enjoying, completely won me over.There's a lot more to the book, and it's worth reading if you have even a passing interest in sports or tennis.  I'm not sure how someone who doesn't follow tennis at all would take it - there are fairly large sections recounting match action that might be tough to follow if you don't understand the archaic scoring of the sport, but understanding everything that happens in those sections isn't really crucial.  You know when Agassi wins and when he loses.  And as a story of a guy who lived a public life while privately not really knowing who he was, and who spent a long time finding himself and just as long coming to terms with that search, it's a great read for just about anyone.
4 When Andre Agassi recently talked on TV about his new book, Open, I was impressed. I thought I saw something more insightful and self-aware about this tennis wunderkind than I had seen before. A reasonably committed tennis fan since the days of Chuck McKinley, my universe of comparables includes all the great ones: Laver, Rosewall, Emerson, Newcombe, Connors, McEnroe, Nastase, Courier, Sampras, Borg, Becker, Edberg... But Andre has somehow always been a little different. And a little more interesting.First there was the erratic but eye-catching "image is everything" Teen Rebel in denim shorts, dangling earring, and ponytail. Then there was the Showbiz Showboat hanging with Barbara Steisand and then tagging Brooke Shields, whom he briefly married. Finally there was the Comeback Kid who, at last fully valuing his own peerless talent, applied himself as he always should have to rise once again to tennis' top-gun status. Over two decades he had morphed into three different personas. Over the same period his career rocked up and down like a roller coaster.What makes this enigmatic Andre tick? For all his superlative skills on the court, for all that tennis brought to him (and he to it), I couldn't believe what he revealed to be his great contradiction. From the very beginning, he has always hated tennis! What? How can such an elite athlete rise not once, but twice to the summit of his sport without at least a begrudging affection for it? Both the book's title and the few juicy lifestyle tidbits teased out in the interview suggested that Open would reveal all.Thanks to the compelling style and structure crafted by co-author, J.R. Moehringer, the book captivates from the start. Agassi begins near the end, with his epic five-set victory against Marcos Baghdatis at the 2006 U.S. Open. He then takes us back to the beginning, to the insufferable backyard drill sessions with his intense immigrant father, a former Iranian Olympic boxer trying to fulfill his American dream as a captain in a Las Vegas casino. The torture continues at Nick Bolletieri's Tennis Academy in Florida, to where he is sent as a tender pre-teen, and where Andre pierces his ear, spikes his hair, drinks booze, breaks rules--and turns pro in ninth grade.He becomes a teen tourney jockey. Along the way he fills out a posse, including trainer and surrogate father Gil Reyes, coach Brad Gilbert, his manager brother Philly, girlfriend Wendi, and then Brooke Shields. The narrative recounts his extraordinary stroke capacity in clutch situations, but also has him fussing that his hairpiece (yes, that ponytail was a fake...) might fall off in a final. Agassi's Brooke phase, including two years of marriage, proves to both him and the reader an unrequited distraction as he flirts with the vacuous Hollywood lifestyle and finds it lacking. Agassi never quite gets to tennis nirvana, for want of sufficient commitment, or drive, or desire, or focus, or something. Through it all, he keeps saying how much he hates tennis.After yet another mediocre tournament performance, Andre has an epiphany. Coach Brad barks that Andre can do better, and should. For once Andre decides to take on the challenge, but this time not for others, but himself. Team Agassi starts over from the beginning, as if he were a teenager again. Body building, satellite tournaments, the indignity of small-time players. Like Mohammed Ali, Andre doggedly works himself back to Number One of Tennis, proving his mettle. But still he whines that he hates the sport.I had hoped for a little more personal reflection about his psychological journey. I grew slightly weary and a little skeptical about how much he hated tennis. Was there to be no reconciliation, or at least more explanation? Maybe it is because, as the slightly vacant gaze of the photo portrait on the book's cover hints, Andre still hasn't found the complete answer. We are left to form our own impressions. For this reader they are highly positive. I can't help but admire the guy, and appreciate all he has been (and still is) to tennis.The story ends well, on two scores. He finds his true love in Stephanie Graf, a colleague champion who is also his quintessential companion. (She also grew up hating the game...) And he now focuses energy on and derives personal meaning from his Andre Agassi College Preparatory Academy, a charter school for at-risk youth that he founded and now supports. Thanks for a great career, Andre, and for a chance to see it from your perspective. Game, set, match, Agassi!
5 What an humble person is Andre Agassi.  The respect he gave to his parents is extrordinary in that he did all things they wanted even though he hated tennis.
5 This is simply an excellent memoir.  It made me want to share all these stories with my friends, even though I am not even a tennis fan.  Though I normally read romances, I enjoy the occasional confessional autobiography, and this never disappoints.  Though one suspects that super athletes are raised by tyrannical or mental parents, Agassi's father inhabits his own special universe.  I had no idea that being a tennis phenomenon was so painful on so many levels.  I don't agree with reviews that highlight his drug use, as that is not the main thrust of this book.  Reviewers that focus on his drug use, his snarky comments about other players, and his dependence on members of his large entourage are missing the bigger picture.  This is all personal information that he is freely offering to the public, so why are people critical of it?  My lasting impression of Agassi is that he worked hard and is extremely generous.  I haven't heard of any other athlete so personally dedicated to a cause. I am so happy for him and Steffi Graf, and he is now my tennis hero.
5 resized_ept_sports_ten_experts_371304552_1256670083I didn't much care for tennis until I met a girl who was a member of a tennis club. Suddenly, at seventeen, I found myself drawn to the sport and was soon taking lessons (with her!) and learning to enjoy the game. She and I played until we got married and have only rarely been out on the courts since. But along the way I began to enjoy watching the professionals play. That was during Andre Agassi's heyday and it was always fun to watch him, especially when he played his friend and arch-rival Pete Sampras. Though Sampras will go down in history as one of the game's all-time greats, it was Agassi who was the fan favorite. His flair, his personality, his style--somehow they made him larger than life.Agassi played until 2006 and, in life after tennis, began to write his memoirs. Released just weeks ago, Open is a look at the life of one of tennis' most interesting figures. Like so many sports superstars, Agassi was pushed into the game by his parents and had nothing like a normal childhood. From the time he was able to walk (and even before) he was being trained as a tennis star. When he was just a child he would have to spend hour after hour, day-after-day on the courts, relentlessly pushed further and higher by his father. Already as a child he learned to hate tennis even while dedicating his life to it. At just thirteen he was sent across the country to a tennis camp which was more of a boot camp than a training academy. He rebelled, he dropped out of school, but still he learned to play the game. Over the course of his storied career he won eight Grand Slam titles and an Olympic gold medal. He took in $30 million in tour earnings and over $25 million per year in endorsement deals. He left the game rich and famous.In Open Agassi presents himself as a reluctant celebrity, a hesitant hero. He did not seek fame but had it thrust upon him by others. He learned quickly that this fame would demand of him a brutal toll. By thirty-six he was physically destroyed, having to sleep nights on the floor and having to spend hours working on his body just to be able to stand. His career had wrecked his body and taken the first thirty-six years of his life.Agassi shows that fame is fleeting and that it does not deliver what it promises. "I understand that there's a tax on everything in America. Now I discover that this is the tax on success in sports--fifteen seconds of time for every fan. I can accept this, intellectually. I just wish it didn't mean the loss of privacy with my girl.  ... Fame is a force. It's unstoppable. You shut your windows to fame and it slides under the door. I turn around one day and discover that I have dozens of famous friends, and I don't know how I met half of them." The same is true of victory; he pursues it relentlessly at times, yet is so often disappointed. At one point he says, "A win doesn't feel as good as a loss feels bad, and the good feeling doesn't last as long as the bad. Not even close."Agassi writes well--very well, even (or, more likely, his co-author/ghost writer does). He has chosen to write this book in the present tense--rather an unusual decision but one that works very well, especially when describing the long and grueling tennis matches. There is an urgency and pain that is communicated so well in the present tense but that might be lacking if it was written in the past. Agassi shows a sly and subtle but terrific sense of humor. His mockery of Michael Chang is friendly, I'm sure, but funny. His description of the first meeting between his father and Steffi Graff's father is downright hilarious.One of the most interesting aspects of the book is Agassi's continual insistence that he hates tennis, that he despises the game and all that it has demanded of him and taken from him. He hates tennis. Yet whenever he tells anybody this they smile and say, "No you don't." No one is able to understand that he hates the very game he has given his life to. He is a prisoner of tennis and a slave to it. This theme carries wonderfully to the final page of the book where it receives a satisfying resolution during an at-first-friendly-then-competitive game with his wife.If you know Agassi, you will not be surprised to learn that there is a fair amount of cussing in the book. His mouth often got him into trouble during his career and there seems to be little change here. He also spends too much time complaining about Brooke Shields to whom he was married for a short while. I always hate to hear a man complain about his wife, whether they are still married or not, and Agassi gives far too much ink to describing his apathy toward her and the ways in which she bothered him. These are unnecessary details that ought to have been left in the past.All-in-all Open is a fantastic book and one of the most enjoyable biographies I've read in recent days. It offers a fascinating glimpse into the life of a sports star whose upbringing seems oh-so-typical. Badgered by a domineering father, forced into a sport he learned to hate (precisely because he was forced into it), having to trade a normal life for it, seeing that it brought him little true happiness, Agassi's life ought to stand as a warning to the multitudes of parents out there who impose their dreams of superstardom upon their children.
4 Very interesting read and a refreshingly honest/open depiction of Agassi's struggles and joys throughout his tennis career. I would recommend this book to anyone, regardless of whether or not they are a fan of tennis, or even sports at all!
4 A surprisingly well written and enjoyable book. Even the chapters on the titles and games won and how played, even set by set, was not in the least boring. A very honest account that had me happy to keep reading.
5 "Open" is perhaps the most open, honest, and engaging autobiography I have ever read.  Most so-called autobiographies seem to have an axe to grind, an image to shape, or are an attempt to re-package history.With the help of ghostwriter, J.R. Moehringer, Mr. Agassi has crafted a book that appears to be brutally honest, showing Mr. Agassi with all his faults and insecurities.Much of the early part of the book shows how the young Agassi revolted against his controlling father and all authority figures. The only thing preventing me from calling this a solid 5-star book is that Mr. Agassi's tone seems a little whiney after awhile when describing these situations.  It wore me down after awhile (as it obviously wore him down when he had to live through it)."Open" is a great ride that provides the reader with glimpses behind the scenes of the ATP and gives the reader a better idea of the real Andre Agassi rather than the image concocted by the American marketing machine.
5 Understood where he was coming from, the pains and glories. Great how games were brought to life that you cannot see on the screen. Felt his pain and happiness closely. I think it is well written, definitely fun too. Brought a sting to my eyes at times, I think every one would enjoy his story. Go Agassi!
4 I really enjoyed this book and could not put it down.I am a tennis fan so  I had been curious to know about Andre. The first chapter really gripped me and I just wanted to read more. I was almost sad to read the last page.What an inspiring life filled with dramas and pain of all kinds. Hopefully Andre has now found peace and fulfilment.
5 I am a tennis fan and have followed Andre Agassi for most of his career.  I read a segment of his book and was very excited to read the rest of it.  Since I have a long commute, I decided to get the audiobook.  Unfortunately, Andre Agassi doesn't read the audio version.  Even more unfortunately, the reader who does sounds nothing like him - he has a much lower, more sensual sounding voice that I found annoying.  I frequently listen to audiobooks, and on the rare occasion when the reader is not good it never gets any better.  It would have been greatly enhanced but him reading his own book, especially given this is an autobiography.So I read the book instead and it did not disappoint.  I thought it was really interesting and hard to put down.  I liked Andre a lot better after reading and thought his impressions of different people seemed pretty spot on.  The book gets 5 stars, the audio gets a 1.
3 This books starts out beautifully. I was amazed at the first chapter - beautifully written and with a keen insight into an aging sport star's mind. Then the book becomes like most every autobiography and skims the surface of the rest of the events in his life.Don't get me wrong, he writes about some intense, not-so-pretty points in his life but they are not as well examined as the beaten-down man in the first chapter. Plus the book takes on a mean-spirited tone and mocks most of the people in his life. Bad attittude, bad karma.The only one who doesn't get mocked is Steffi but wait for his 2nd autobiography. He tends to disregard people in his life rather than seeing them for their contribution (bad, good or indifferent) as to who he is today.I wish he were a bit more insightful and not as mean-spirited but he still is young so maybe he should have waited a while to write this and gotten a bit more distance from the emotions. Maybe there should be a law that no one can write an autobiography until they are over 65. Anyone with me? No guarantee of more insight but the odds are a bit better than someone in their 30s.
5 Every now and then you find a story so enthralling its almost aggravating that you have to put it down.  Agassi's autobiography unquestionably falls into this category.  Andre is completely candid, and perhaps what makes this page turner so good is that his honestly allows you to immediately relate with him as a normal flawed human being struggling to cope, despite the fact that he is also a world champion tennis player.The book was ghost written by J. R. Moehringer, who is superb.  It is rare to find a writer who can make even the act of running up and down hills entertaining, yet Moehringer not only maintains interest throughout but also drags you right in to the ups and downs of Agassi's life.Agassi defines in his own terms why he succeeded as well as outlining the meaning of his failures.  There is so much covered in this book that summarizing any of it in a simple review just wouldn't do it justice.  If you have only a passing interest in tennis (or none at all for that matter) it will not detract from the enjoyment of this book, it is just that good.
5 I have seen many of Agassi's matches, some of them are described in the book some others are just mentioned. He forgot to comment about the beach ball incident while playing against Ivan Lendl (who, btw is briefly mentioned a couple of times in the book) and he also forgot to explain that his first Wimbledon was the first Wimbledon he played ALL WHITE. Agassi is just another human bieng as the book explains all along the 386 pages. When I read that he wrote this book I though: "I MUST HAVE THIS BOOK" two weeks ago when I knew I was spending sometime in San Jose, CA i told myself that that was the week when I were going to BUY the book. I bought it last Friday (Dec 18th) and finished on Sunday 20th... The book just don't let you go, every page you read makes you want go further, know deeper, you want to finish the match memories and pass to the Cheeseburgers talks... THIS IS A GREAT BOOK FROM A GREAT HUMAN BEING... This book is to be liked by many tennis players (amateurs or just-for-fun players)... Allez, Agassi!!!!
4 I'm not a huge tennis fan but I was curious about Andre's story when he appeared on a morning show and talked about how he hated tennis and a few other things about his life that had the interviewer a little surprized.  I must say his journey is definitely one that keeps you engaged.  It's full of twists and turns and angst and family issues.  He certainly lives the unconventional life, all the time fighting with himself.  He eventualy finds his way and I as a reader felt very satisfied with how he made peace with himself.  The ghost writer did an amazing job of tying his life together and making this a good read.  Perhaps without that contribution this would be a bland book.  But instead this is a human story that reaches you in a good way.  It is not deep and powerful literature but it is a good biography and I enjoyed it thoroughly.
5 Mr Agassi is brutally honest, eloquent, and vivid.  He recreates his life for us and it is even better on the page than it was over the airways for the last 20 + years.  Perfect read in every way.
4 I have admired Andre Agassi for years, both for his tennis as well as his altruism. His book was riveting and gave tremendous insight into Agassi. I finished it a few weeks ago and something is still bothering me. It's this: Andre, throughout the book, was brimming with bitterness and anger. It seems that, even now, he still can't forget the boy he claims cheated on a line call. We read that his dad was terrible, his first wife let him down, Nick B. was an ass, Pete was shallow and cheap, teachers picked on him, and so much more. While Agassi is more than open about his feelings, he never showed that he finally dealt with his issues, grew up and moved on. Worse, to see him play in the wonderful Hit for Haiti tournament with Sampras this March and choose that forum to dredge out the same tired insults against Pete - I felt nothing but sadness for Andre, a man who, despite his openness, is the same angry boy from 30 years ago.
5 One of the most enthralling autobiographies I have ever read - and I don't even like sports!
5 I really never saw Mr Agassi play a match. I didn't get interested in tennis until Ms Venus and Ms Serena came on the scene. But I had heard of him and wanted to read what he had to say. I wasn't disappointed at all. I enjoyed reading this book. I gained insight into a great man that I really needed to know.
4 I bought this book as a gift - I am shocked at the horrible quality of the printing. For a guy who represented "image is everything" this book doesn't do him any favors. Firstly, the print is upside down compared to the jacket and title on the edge of the book?!? The paper looks like the cheapest paper I've ever seen in a hardback. It looks like recycled grocery sacks. And the trim on the pages is ridiculous. Every page is a different width and looks like it was cut with a bread knife. I hope the writing is good. Is everyone else's book like this? I can't believe it hasn't been mentioned in the other reviews. Did they read it on Kindle?OK - my bad. I guess this is the new "cool" thing to make it look like you care about the environment by using recyled paper. I'm changing my 1 star rating to 4 stars because I enjoyed the read and he's lucky enough to be married to my favorite tennis player.
5 good book about one of my favorite tennis players.  it takes you from the very immature Andre all the way to the very mature, father  and husband who is preparing to leave the game that has been his life.
5 I grew up loving Andre Agassi.  I had a little soft spot for him.This book is funny and well written and exciting.The morals of the book frustrate me a little bit though - why pick on other tennis players?  I guess if that's who he is, that's great, but it's a little sad to see that is what he needs to do.
4 I first have to call  BULL  Sh#$$  on his claim that he hated the game.  having played at a high level myself, there is no way.  I mean NO WAY he could have accomplished anything if he hated the game as much as he claimed.I enjoyed the behind the scenes of the game, from his perspective.  Just realize it was just that, his thoughts.  I think there was more to most of these stories.  I guess you'll have to read the competitors books to know for sureTake a minute and see for yourself
5 I could not put this book down!  I checked it out from the library, but loved it so much that I bought a copy for my husband who is also loving it!  It is so interesting and honest--you will not be disappointed.
5 I was really sad reading about Andre's childhood and his loathing of tennis.  He is not alone as there are many parent driven children in our world who suffer so much at the hands of their parents.  I don't understand why he married Brooke Shields but it was a good lesson learnt in the end about what love really is.  I couldn't put the book down, especially throughout the book where Gil was involved, what a man, if we could clone him and put him in every high school around the world, children would definately become less problematic.  I admire Andre for the passion and committment he has put into his school, again, if Governments could learn from his motivation, determination and generosity the world would be a different place.  Finally, I am so very happy that he finally married such a sensational, caring, fun Steffi and had amazing children.  Steffi is a hero in our minds and they are a match made in heaven.  Bless them both and their children.
4 I grew up in Las Vegas at the same time as Andre Agassi, and the local news often had stories about the young phenom who could hit balls with pros at age 8.  When he burst onto the professional scene and quickly hit the top 10, I despised him.  He was brash and rebellious and signified everything people criticized Las Vegas for - style over substance.  In particular, he was a direct contrast to my favorite player at the time, the staid methodical Stefan Edberg.  Over time, though, Andre matured.  Early on he seemed to squander his talent, but gradually he started winning majors, starting with the 1992 Wimbledon.  After a series of injuries and disappointments, he started to seem grateful for the success.  I began to like him, and by the time he won his second major in 1994 (the U.S. Open), he was my favorite player.Agassi's autobiography, written with the help of Pulitzer Prize winning journalist and author J.R. Moehringer, is a warts and all examination of his career and himself as a man.  He gives us shocking revelations (recreational drug use, wig abuse), tennis gossip (he seriously dislikes Michael Chang), insights into his matches, and a nifty analysis of his tennis career.  However, the focus of the book is always his gradual formation as a man (he balks at using the phrase "transformation") - from a rebellious wunderkind to an elder statesman, from a mohawk sporting brat to a philanthropist, from a actress-chasing bachelor to a father.  He speaks in glowing terms about those closest to him, especially Steffi Graf and Gil Reyes, and seems loyal to those who are loyal to him.Because of his candor, Agassi can come across rather poorly at times.  He has unkind words for many of his opponents and seems like he's ungrateful for his success; yet he claims that most of his behavior stemmed from being insecure and not knowing who he was.  He had tennis thrust upon him by his overbearing father, and he really never had a choice about whether to play, by which time he felt he had nothing else to do (he dropped out of school in the ninth grade).  Ultimately, Agassi presents himself as the title claims - in an open manner.  He's often a bundle of contradictions but aren't we all?I started the book as a huge fan of Agassi who was a bit shaken by the admissions of drug use.  Frankly, at times during the book, I found myself thinking Agassi is a bit of an ungrateful whiner.  However, I admire that he took this plunge and wrote so candidly about himself.  Shortly before I read "Open," I reviewed the recent autobiography from Serena Williams, whom I adore.  I wrote at the time (which was before Agassi's drug shocker was released), "I hope that [Serena] will someday write another book that goes deeper. I'm betting that the upcoming autobiography from Andre Agassi will be that kind of reflective memoir."  I couldn't have been more prescient.
5 I hate sports.  I was never good at sports, I never played sports, and always had a kind of adolescent irritation with people who did play them, and play them well.  So, I knew next to nothing about Andre Agassi except for seeing him in a couple of very cute commercials, vaguely recalling his bust-up with Brooke Shields, and remembering how people would go on and on about his talent.  I was not expecting this.  Instead of a loving valentine to himself or serving up some half-baked "redemption" fable, Agassi rips himself apart.  I can now appreciate why, probably, so many athletes are or are perceived as "jerks."  They are crafted that way by family, coaches, and the unreasonable demands of a fickle public, the "win at all costs" mentality breeding all manner of abuses and rebellions that too often become the stuff of tabloid legend, not to mention great personal anguish.With that backdrop, it would be very easy for Agassi to descend into a "woe is me, poor little rich kid" whine.  He does not.  His tone is very harsh at times, especially so when detailing his past eyebrow-raising transgressions on and off the court.  And he talks about his successes and his perceived failures with an amazing pull-no-punches candor I found engaging and deeply insightful.  Agassi comes off as all-too human, a person with extraordinary athletic gifts that came at a great personal price, sometimes by his own devising and sometimes by that of others.  And like in Bob Paris' book "Gorilla Suit" I reviewed a couple of weeks ago, sports media, marketing and entertainment come off very, very shabbily indeed, cold, greedy, and soulless.  But, best of all, Agassi is clearly not out to make people "like" him or even "respect" him, or even to present himself as some self-help paragon or make-a-buck huckster cashing in on his faded celebrity.  He thinks he has an interesting story with many cautionary tales to share, and he tells it well in the measured tones of a older man thoughtfully considering his life so far, a far cry from the day-glo "Golden Boy" of so many years ago.  And good or bad, it is indeed interesting, whether you love the man or despise him.I also am given to understand that Agassi ran the transcript of the book by Brooke Shields before publication to get her perspective.  And while he freely admits that on some points they "agreed to disagree," I think it speaks to credibility when a man will discuss material with his ex-wife to make sure he "gets it right"  - at least as he sees it - before exposing his life to the public.This is the work of a very talented but once very unhappy man who is in the process of discovering exactly who he is, whose honesty is likely antidote for the fundamentally dishonest media image that once held him captive.  While it can be bitter, it is always thoughtful and unblinking.  A fine job all the way around.Recommended without reservation.
5 Absolutely wonderful autobiography.  Agassi gives us a deep  understanding of the human effort required to perform in an extremely challenging athletic discipline, at the world-class level.  Honest, intelligent, and truly admirable book and story.
5 I gave this to my daughter who is a tennis &#34;nut&#34;.  She loves the book and reads stories from it all the time.  Her reviews &#34; which are tougher than most critics&#34; are excellent.
3 Not the sort of book I would say "you have to read."  I saw his interview on 60 minutes on thought it would be a great read....but I was a little disappointed.
5 I have loved Andre Agassi for longer than I can remember. There is a gentleness about him, even when he speaks. What he has done for the kids of Las Vegas through his  foundation means as much to me as his accomplishments in tennis.I could care less  about his little period taking drugs. He is human with  faults,with accomplishments, with longings just like the rest of us, all of which have been candidly put out there in this bio.
5 I am not a huge fan of autobiographies, as most of them seem to be too self-congratulatory and take a few liberties with the truth. Not this one. It is crisp, extremely well written and edited, and revealing. Agassi holds nothing back, it seems, not even the parts that make him look less than perfect. It is a very inspiring book at the same time, and touching and tender in parts. I found quite a few passages and sentences to highlight on my Kindle app. A crackling good read to boot! I finished it over one weekend. My respect for Andre as a person shot up after reading it, to match with the respect I felt for him as a player from his playing days.Highly recommended.
1 The book is well written.  That's about the only nice thing I can say about it.  Agassi could have saved a couple hundred pages by simply explaining that early in his life he was forced to play tennis by his father against his will and became self-destructive for most of his life as a result. This book goes on ad nauseum about his episodes of self-pity and self-indulgence.  How Brad Gilbert and his other team members tolerated his erratic behavior is beyond me.  It's a wonder Agassi won any slams given his penchant for distraction and loss of focus.  Except for his foundation and academy work, I've lost a lot of respect for Agassi.
5 Really enjoyed reading this book and it made me go back and read other books by Bennett.  Nice integration of the story line with Geoffrey Chaucer and a nice introduction to the Canterbury Tales and that period.  Characters are well drawn and interesting and the storyline is tight.
4 This is the third book by this author that I have read. Though it was difficult to find the book -since it is not available in the US it was a challenge to get a hold of but well worth it. It was interesting to look at history from the perspective of Alice Ferrers and Geoffrey Chaucer.
1 Not engaging. I let the book rest for a while to see if it would grab my attention back, if the lust and need to read and finish it would come. But it didn't.Cold, unpersonal writing style. I didn't care at all what happened or about the characters. I didn't like all the () with the extra information, but it seemed that she was well knowledgeable at least (?).Might give it a go another time, we'll see.
2 What a disappointment!  I couldn't even finish the book because I simply lost interest.  I'm not sure quite what's wrong with this story of the infamous Alice Perrers, mistress of the aging Plantagenet King Edward III. She's such a great subject for a historical novel; what happened here? It may have been that instead of starting off by building up a background story for Alice, the author plunges us right into her adult life.  We read about how successfully she's built her fortune, her manipulative personality, her constantly twinkling, winking expressions and flirtatiousness.  We just don't know what made her this way.  The same for Chaucer, certainly one of history's more intriguing characters.  It also does not have a great sense of place - this is medieval England, for Pete's sake!  Yet the machinations of Alice, the city merchants, and the nobility sound more like a modern tale - and totally lacking in color.  It's hard to believe this is from the same author of the wonderful Figures in Silk.
4 Alice Perrers, the `Queen' of this title is mistress to the ageing English King Edward III.  In this novel, she is portrayed as being one of the people - a peasant - who has risen to great heights and made many enemies along the way.  After a prologue set during the Black Death, the novel proper opens, with Alice at the height of her powers - fully atop the Wheel of Fortune.  Where to from here?Alice is beginning to realise that she needs to secure her future: Edward III has been an indulgent protector and benefactor but he cannot live much longer.  And there are signs that both Parliament and the City of London have enough power to insist on a greater role in running England in future.  The war with France has been costly and increasingly more difficult to fund.  The King's heir is dying, and his successor is a boy.As Alice amasses property for her future, she keeps a keen eye on the power struggle between Edward III's sons: the dying Edward the Black Prince (his heir) and his brother John of Gaunt.  She is also a patron of Geoffrey Chaucer, then Comptroller of export tax on wool, sheepskins and leather in the Port of London, and shares aspects of a past with Wat Tyler (who will later be leader of the Peasants' Revolt).`Alice Perrers is not invited to the King's funeral.'Without the King to protect her, Alice's life takes some interesting turns.  She moves from the Court to a safe manor house, to a place of safety or so she hopes.  But Fortune's wheel has not yet finished turning:  Alice, her family and friends have yet to endure the Peasants' Revolt.`The day and the night that follow are the time of the Beast.'`The People's Queen' covers seven years of Alice's life: from 1374 to 1381 (the year of the Peasants' Revolt) and is mainly told in present tense.  It took me a while to become caught up in the story, but once I was I couldn't put it down.  Present tense, with dashes of authorial narration kept this story moving.  I am intrigued by Alice Perrers and am in the process of reading three novels about her.  Each is very different and while I'm not yet sure which Alice I prefer best, I found this depiction engrossing.  I especially enjoyed the depiction of Geoffrey Chaucer.Jennifer Cameron-Smith
5 This book was highly recommended by a friend. However initially I found it very draggy - more like a textbook than a novel. But my perseverance paid off. It picked up and became very interesting. At a certain point it was so hot it sizzled!The characters were well done and we got an interesting glimpse of the happenings during those times. Reading about Chaucer, whose book "The Canterbury Tales" I was familiar with, was a bonus point for this novel.I definitely recommend this book.
5 Alice Perrers. . . Who was she? Ugly or pretty? Grasping and without conscience or considerate of others? A mistress of royalty who only used her status for self advancement? Or. . . .? There is not so much know about her life, making it difficult to speak in much detail about her. Oddly, in this novel, she works at counterpoint with John of Gaunt's mistress (and later wife), Katherine Swynford--about whom rather little is known. In this novel, Swynford is portrayed as rather nasty (I have read other books where she is portrayed much more positively).Perrers was born in difficult circumstances and raised by a hard nosed woman who did most anything needed to get ahead. By good fortune, Alice ended up as Henry III's mistress. From this position, she exerted considerable influence and gained many estates and much money.This book looks at the jealousies directed against her, how her own behavior fanned opposition to her, how she fell from the heights, and how she began an ascent once more.During the course of this novel, we meet historical figures such as Geoffrey Chaucer (Was Alice the Wife of Bath in "The Canterbury Tails"? That is a suggestion in this work.), John of Gaunt, Richard II, and so on.How accurate is this work? I cannot say. There is so little on the historical record. Nonetheless, it is a fine piece of historical fiction.
5 Amazing, incredible book...something so obvious and so necessary..people have got to read this book if they want to feel great about themselves.What's more is you can apply the way Jason views the food industry to everything else in your life - work, relationships, STUFF...what we think we want more of but just doesn't really do it for us.xx,Catt
5 Makes you look at things differently, if you are open minded. I would suggest this book to all my friends.
5 I had never heard of Jason Vale, yet he is from the same country I'm from. I purchased this book based on someone else's feedback and I can honestly say &#34;I love this book&#34; and I even recommended it to my sister. It is easy to follow the recipes and the book is an easy read. You will not be disappointed.
5 Jason changes the way you eat.  Makes you desire the good stuff, and avoid the bad. You never have to diet again. You will find yourself making healthy choices.  I ate healthy before, I thought.  Now my blood pressure which was 120 to 138, over 71 to 79, is down to 114 over 65.  It was not that bad before most of the time, but so much better now. He covers a lot of different material, and you certainly will learn new things from his book.
5 I loved this book! It's motivating and makes sense! I'm loving the juice and I really liked getting out and clear about the food trap!I recommend this book for everyone!Also check out his iphone-apps, they are Top notch and a great way to get startet after finishing the book!
3 While I do like the book, some of the nutritional information contradicts info on the topic from various other sources. Jason talks a little bit about how animals eat in the wild; about natural vs unnatural foods and ways of eating. For example, he talks about adult mammals not drinking milk, especially from another mammal. He talks about how you wouldn't see an animal in the wild eating simply because they're bored, and other such examples. How do you come up with juicing being the perfect nourishment when it's somewhat of a newer fad? Depending on the location in the world, our ancestors only had access to fruit seasonally. And when, since the beginning of time have you seen people juicing? (I'll admit, I am not a fan of juicing, but I do like smoothies).All in all, I would recommend the book because it inspired me to make better food choices, but take it with a grain of salt. I own 3 of this books and would definitely recommend.
4 This book held my interest from beginning to end. I read it in about three days and am trying to follow the concepts. I TRULY believe he has the answer - it is just if I personally can follow it. Food really is a trap - and I admit I am in the trap.
5 Ship of Rome kept me glued to my Kindle.  It's a great book for anyone who loves historical fiction.  I'm looking forward to the remainder of the series.
3 First posted on Amazon.co.uk on 2 Sptember 2010There are a number of positive elements.This is a first novel and, despite its flaws, it is an exciting read. The topic chosen by the author is somewhat original: the First Punic War (264-241 BC, the Roman Republic versus Carthage), with a strong emphasis on naval warfare. Another caveat: historical sources are either Roman or Greek, meaning they are biaised. There aren't any Carthagenian sources simply because the Romans obliterated Carthage and its civilisation when they finally conquered the city in 146 BC, meaning that any author will have difficulties when trying to describe elements related to Carthage. However, the book could have been much better. As others has mentioned, it associates carboard characterization and atrocious research (or no research at all?). The book is supposed to be, after all, a work of HISTORICAL fiction. The author should be expected to get his facts right and to have done his research properly. He obviously has not been bothered to do so, neither has he properly checked the consistency of the story. A few examples:1) Rowers in triremes or quinqueremes (trieres and penteres, for the Greeks) were NOT slaves in Antiquity and were NOT chained, contrary to what Holywood's Ben Hur (and the author of this book) state2) The port of Broelium is pure invention and, throughout Antiquity and the Middle Ages, fleets of war galleys were rather inefficent at conducting blockades, if only because they had very little storage capacity and needed to put in every 24 or (at most) 48 hours to replenish their reserves of fresh water. This also means that they rarely were capable (and even more rarely wanted) to sail by night3) Contrary to what is suggested, there is little tide in the Mediterranean...4) While Rome did build its first fleet of fives to fight against Carthage, the story about a captured Carthagenian five serving as a model is unlikely to be true, altough it is related by Polybios. Fives had been built more then 130 years before by Syracuse and had become the main warship in the East after the death of Alexander. In addition, relations between Rome and Carthage had become increasingly tense in the years prior to 264 BC, so that it is more than likely than Rome's effort to build up its fleet began in fact before the war started and was carried out over a number of years before it had enough fives to confront Carthage on the sea.5) The story is a bit too one-sided, with the Romans appearing as the "goodies" and the Carthaginians as the "badies", despite a few shady characters in both camps. In fact, Carthage and Rome had been allied against Pyrrhos, King of Epiros, a few years before and Rome used a pretext to start the war because of its ambition to conquer Sicily.A pity and a shame. It could have been a superb read if the author had been less slopy. I'll nevertheless read the next one, hoping that some of these flaws get corrected.
4 Delenda est CarthagoMarcus Porcius CatoIn the last few months I have finished reading over ten novels situated in ancient Rome. Of those ten or so novels, three were by Rosemary Sutcliff and two by Alfred Duggan. Additionally, over the last fifty years I have read scores of historical novels and throughout that time I have devised a test: either (1) the novel is simply an action adventure (or perhaps romance or political thriller)with the characters dressed as Ancient Romans or (2) it is truly a historical novel, a novel that takes us to that specific time, teaches us something we did not know, and possesses a serious theme and purpose. Those novels that fall within the first category can be quite entertaining like a good movie; however, those that fall in the second category transcend the genre to become literature, especially if they are written with an eye on the first category. The movie Gladiator falls within the first category; I, Claudius is firmly situated in the second. John Stack's Ship of Rome, a novel set within the historical period of the first Punic war successfully chronicles the naval battles that occurred and Rome's emergence as a mighty sea power. It falls within the first category but clearly satisfies in its execution. The story is accurate; the characters well-rounded and believable.Part of the problem for me is that novels that fall within the first category suffer from what I call anachronism of modernism. Even if the author does everything he or she possibly can do to fall in the second category, he or she sometimes fails because of the point of view or the method in which he or she tells the story. Primarily, the current crop of historical novelists want to follow the Bernard Cornwall model, which is not unlike Scott and Cooper of the 19th century, or O'Brien of the 20th. There is a formula and a heavily plotted story. Survival of the main characters is a given because they must live to fight another day and appear in the next installment. Consequentially, this formula is satisfying and safe. As I write this I can think of least twenty works that fall easily into the category; they usually include two characters--one patrician, the other a commoner-- fighting the good fight in some foreign war, a series of near death episodes, shady leaders and evil machinations by both friend and foe. The fact is that this formula works. From Sherlock Holmes to Batman, it succeeds in pulp, in comics and in movies. Novels that do not fit the first category are rarer and usually more difficult to read; they are idiosyncratic for the most part and based on character or theme. Nevertheless, let me be clear, I like books that fit both categories. I enjoy the novels of Scarrow and Cornwell just as much I like the novels that fall in category two. However, even within the categories some novels satisfy more than others as historical novels. John Stack's "Ship of Rome" is one of those novels. Even though he clearly falls in line behind Cornwall, Scarrow, and Sidebottom, for some reason I found his work more grounded, perhaps more realistic and less like cinema. And, even though, he employs several anachronisms of modernism, including the patrician/commoner duo, the romantic trio, and the devious senators, I found myself believing I was reading about early Rome. In other words I suspended disbelief and found myself engrossed in the novel, caring about the characters.I believe Stack pulled this novel off by situating the action firmly within the facts of the times. Most of the characters are actually historical characters doing and saying what they actually did and said at the time. The battle scenes are carefully drawn and resolve themselves as the Roman historians said they occurred. The descriptions of ships, cities, and the Senate are precise and detailed; and although it is a technique of modernism, Stack's use of multiple points of views provides the reader a 360 degree view of the Punic war. Additionally, his main characters, Atticus, the Greek sea captain, and Septimus, the Roman Centurion, are well drawn and sympathetic. Conflict is rampant in the book on several levels: man against nature--the Romans are new to naval warfare and the sea itself is a daunting place; man against man--the characters struggle against one another, Rome wars against Carthage, Legion battles Navy, Senators deceive Senator, patricians detest nouveau riche; and man against himself--Atticus struggles to be a Roman and overcome his inferiority complex, while Septimus struggles against his prejudice of barbarians, more specifically, the Greek, Atticus.All in all, "Ship of Rome" was a quick, exciting read; and although it contains many anachronisms of modernism, including the fact that it is the first book of a series, I found it one of the better books in the first category. Stack is a worthy newcomer to the Scarrow/Sidebottom Roman historical novel genre race.
5 This is a very enjoyable read. It is based on real events in the war at sea between Rome and Carthage during a critical period early in the conflict. The Carthaginians are suitably ruthless and the Roman soldiers brave and tough. There are a few historical blips (Naples was called Neapolis at the time) but it is a great story and looks like it is leading to a sequel which is something to really look forward to.
5 This book was included on my daughter's Wish List.  It arrived on time and was in excellent condition.  The cover was as perfect in appearance as the picture.
2 One would wonder if the author did any research. A simple glance at Wikipedia would have provided the lacking details. The whole "band of brothers" theme is incredibly sentimental.
5 The Kashmir Shawl was a wonderful story of present-day and pre-WWII days, taking place in Wales and India.  Loved this book!
5 This is a quite excellent book. Well written, well drawn characters and a great story line. A couple of unexpected turns mean the story is not predictable, but instead becomes an insightful look at human nature. The descriptions of Kashmir and the Himalayan regions were good without being boring or dominating the story. Highly recommended.
4 What and interesting theme. This was most enjoyable and interwoven with very interesting historical facts. The story is written from different perspectives, which always adds flavour.
5 The plot and style of writing is excellent. The characters are believable and the thread of the story is well carried throughout the length of the book. I thoroughly enjoyed it!
4 I loved the thread of the Kashmir shawl through this story.  The writing is rich and descriptive so you are drawn into the story.  Well worth reading.
3 Not great literature, but perfect for those times you aren't wanting to think to hard. Entertaining, great backdrop and a light read.
4 Mair finds a Kashmir shawl among the possessions of her recently deceased parents. A lock of hair tucked in the shawl leads the siblings to speculate as to whom the shawl belonged to. Mair, due to her lack of attachments and commitments compared to her two siblings, decides to find out more about the origins of the shawl and sets out to track down the maker and place of origin. A weird reason for an odyssey across the country, perhaps, but it's the one we are given. What follows is Mair's growth and discovery as she meets dozens of new faces, searching for the illusive origins of the shawl. The shawl itself is an absolute mystery, as no one can seem to place how it was even made.The characters are varied; native villagers, missionaries from the West, etc. There's a lot of interweaving plotlines and overarching stories, to add to the drama and sense of adventure displayed in the novel.This book is kind of a slow burn. Although the introduction captured my attention by having the characters sort through their deceased parent's possessions, it then goes on to spend a good deal of time setting up the characters and their circumstances. The lengthy book and the care the author has taken in crafting the characters will be a boon to some. I was of mixed minds; some subplots I found to be more interesting that others.I did enjoy the meticulously crafted setting of Colonial India in the 1940s. I even learned a bit about the process of crafting kashmir shawls. So I give the books credit for transporting me to a far-away place and teaching me new things, which is one reason I love to read.
5 I absolutely loved this book I could not put it down, a friend recommended it and I am nowtelling my friends they must read it.All the different characters were so real that you felt that they had actually existed and you would like to meet themWell written and shows the influence the English had in India.Aussie Mel
5 Fabulous book that I couldn't leave alone until I had finished it.  .  Well written and really captured my interest.
3 Oh, it had its moments of intrigue and interest -- but then it went on and on and on. The tale of parallel lives over the distance of two generations. One strong, forthright woman of the 1940s, another of the 1980s: each meets a woman to whom she is immediately attracted and each falls in love with a strong, formidable man. Between them stretches a history of friendship, love, loneliness, skill, heroism, tragedy, hardship, yada, yada. Just totally uninterested. As one reviewer wrote: A novelist's novel. Thomas took way too much delight in her own cleverness in weaving intricate plots. Seemed more like a romance novel than historical fiction, as if Thomas couldn't quite decide which it should be. I only made it to the end (over 500 pages!) by aggressively skimming through about 200 pages of it.
5 I really enjoyed this book, has a touch of everything, love, romance, history, sadness. The way it has been written going back and forth from the 40's to present was really well done
4 This story is set mostly in the Kashmir province in India, alternating between WW2 & current day; and the current day character & the story of her grandmother earlier.  I admit I enjoy these 2-characters-across-time stories. What is good about this one is it's just a good yarn; the characters are interesting, there's enough happening that you want to know how things turn out.  The cultural context works well - I enjoyed learning more about India in that period, and having both western / indian characters also balanced familiarity with learning about another people's culture & their view of the world. Some things did tie up a little too neatly but that wasn't really irritating and it wasn't all happy endings either.
5 The Kashmir Shawl  by Rosie ThomasI loved this book. The writing is gorgeous. I found myself rereading passages to savor the words.  That is, until I got caught up in the story! Now I am planning to reread the book so I can appreciate the writing skill that is so evident.The characters are real. The conversations are real. The situations the characters find themselves in are real. The only flaw (if it is a flaw) is that all of the ends are tied up so neatly - especially Farida and Zahra - that one was just too pat.The differing marriages that are explored would make a great topic for book groups - what makes a marriage or fail, what is a failed marriage, how are marriages different, what forces do family and culture play on marriage, who is responsible for making a marriage work, etc.I learned a lot about India that changed my perspective on the current situation with China, Nepal, India, Bangladesh and Pakistan. I also enjoyed learning a bit about World War II and British India.There were times when I would have appreciated a glossary of the Indian terms and occasions used in the book. I wondered what "afternoon bread" was and how it differed from other breads.  A map would have been helpful - I printed one off the Internet, but, of course, not all of the places mentioned were on any one map and trying to overlay them just didn't work.I would strongly recommend this book to book groups that are interested in family issues, history, ethnic culture, mystery and just great writing.  I could not decide if this was "women's" fiction, historical fiction, romance, and finally decided literary fiction was the most accurate.I have  a pashima from my daughter's two and a half years living in Kazakhstan - of course not nearly as elegant or beautiful as Nerys'  - but even with only two colors, the design woven in fine wool threads on my shawl, is different on the two sides so I can appreciate the intricacy of the "Kashmir Shawl" described in the book.
5 Capturing the opulence and cruel poverty of India during the years encapsulated by pre-war, World War II and post-war, and weaving between the past and present-day lives of two women on a quest, THE KASHMIR SHAWL is exquisite.At first it was slow reading, as I became acclimated to Ms. Thomas' rhythms. I put the book down about fifteen times before I had finished the first chapter, and then it was like "What? I've only made it through Chapter One?" It wasn't until the third or fourth chapter that I was completely hooked.As useful hindsight, the weaving between Nerys' and Mair's stories is unannounced, sometimes occurring between chapters or even within the same chapter. Occasionally I tripped up on whose point of view I was in until I got to the names. The story also splintered off into other points of view, when I had fallen into the cadence of Nerys and Mair alternating their voices, and I had to adjust to a different rhythm.(Some parents may find it hard to read this book as one of the key themes is that of losing children too soon, and the devastation that follows.)Then came the brilliance, and everything else was worth it. Ms. Thomas traveled to Ladakh and Kashmir to research the novel, and her attention to detail shines. Much like The Good Earth by Pearl S. Buck captured my heart and introduced me to China, THE KASHMIR SHAWL brought India to life. It would make a fantastic movie--or even a play--and I expect it will live in my heart for a long time.As THE KASHMIR SHAWL is a saga, any attempt to summarize it feels like skimming fingers across a lake. I can try to contain the ripples into words but it won't capture the depth. I love the various characters, even the baddies, because they are such a tapestry of grays and colors that I connect with them on different levels.It's no wonder that Ms. Thomas has won the Romantic Novel of the Year award twice; her portrayals of love are deep and variegated, and--much like I had experienced with The Good Earth--I often spoke to the pages in commiseration or in warning. In sharing the world of a married but neglected missionary wife (Nerys), and her single but unfulfilled granddaughter (Mair)  seeking out a connection with a woman she never knew, we are introduced to worlds and times that are complicated, beautiful, painful, and simple.Reviewed by JCCelestefor TheRomanceReviews.com
5 One of the best books I have read in a long time. It was a real page turner and i couldn't put it down. The actual story line was fast paced & the descriptions of every aspect of the peoples' lives  were spectacular. The love, unwavering friendship and the conflicts were so well articulated as was life in Idia in both olden & modern times. An absolute MUST read.
4 the story line took me through areas of India I knew nothing about.  A story that is quite complex but very interesting
3 Great story line and it provided a fantastic insight into colonial India, which I loved, but the story progressed a bit too slowly for my liking.  It isn't a book I would highly recommend if you are the sort of reader who likes to be engrossed in the story and characters early on, but that is my opinion.
5 This is a fascinating story that mostly took place in India and Kashmir in two periods of time.  Mair has many adventures as she seeks to solve the mystery of her deceased mother's Kashmiri shawl.  The people she meets along the way make it an intriguing book
4 Beautifully written interwoven story of families over three generations.The theme kept threading from one generation to another and kept me enthralled.
4 i really enjoyed this book, i was hesitant at first but enjoyed this.such an array of personalities and colours, smells i could literally feel in the bookvery well written
5 If you can describe a book as being beautiful, well this one is. A very touching story, easy to follow.
2 Disappointing.. Ploughed on but only became absorbing more than half way through.Pity about the slow start. ,and not typical of this author.
5 This one took me a while to wade through - and I loved every page.A sprawling wartime tale of secrets and betrayals and personal growth and more than a little tragedy, it's not light bedtime reading. Most of the time it's not light, period. Both Nerys Watkins and her granddaughter suffer the misfortune of watching close friends live through personal tragedies while dealing with their own difficulties along the way. It's a compelling story, but what really makes the book shine is its character development. All the characters - even the minor ones - are vividly drawn, and by the time it's all over you feel like you know them all very well. The Kashmir locale is portrayed vividly as well, both in the 1940s and today as well as the crucial differences between the two.If some of the subplots lead to conclusions that are less than plausible, for the most part Thomas avoids fairy-tale endings, even when we would no doubt prefer those for the characters we now know so well. It's worth taking your time to savor all the details.
5 I was so sorry to come to the end of this delightful story.  It describes the last years of the &#34;British Raj&#34; and the effect of the Second World War, crossing three countries from which its characters came and returned.  The open ending leaves it open to imagination yet is very satisfying.  Characterisation was very good and I felt I knew the people depicted.  I shall be reaading more from this author.
4 I have not finished this book yet, but I am really enjoying it.  Rosie Thomas is a writer I find easy to read.This book holds my interest as the story is a gentle tale of a woman finding her roots and exploring the the history of a grandmother's life in a foreign country.  The contrast of the luxury living of her grandmother's new friends and the austere life of a missionary's wife is compelling.I am enjoying the way the book weaves the grandmother's (Nerys) story with the present day journey of the young woman (Mair) in finding who she really is  - a journey of history, discovery and culture and of love.
4 This is an interesting story woven round a Kashmir shawl. There are in fact two stories, one in the present  related to Mair Ellis wanting to find out about one aspect of the family&#8217;s history, and the other that story that happened in the past, focusing on her grandmother Nerys Watkins.Trying to run two parallel stories like this can be confusing for the reader but Rosie Thomas manages to keep the two stories running without too much confusion for the reader. Initially one has to try and remember which story it is but after some time, when chapters switch to the other story, the reader can follow that without any problem. The way the book I written, the emphasis falls back at the end to the present story, rounding off the past and the present stories.The book Is not always compelling, but there is enough interest for the reader to want to carry on reading. Some books can be interesting just for the story, but Kashmir Shawl is also interesting because of the historical and geographical contexts. The descriptions of the places, and the people are clear and although it is not historical fiction, light is thrown on many aspects, such as the fate of Kashmir during and after British rule, and the role of missionaries in South East Asia. One gets vivid descriptions  such as of life on a Kashmir houseboat, the life in a mission in a remote village, nature of communication between the isolated villages and the rest of the world, and nature of family and community life in different parts.There is always an element of disbelief but a romantic novel can include that if all the different threads are to be drawn together at the end. Someone, however, should have included a map so that the contexts of the different places mentioned would have been clear.
3 The history of Kashmir and the descriptions of the landscape, the people and the history are well written and enjoyable reading. I did find gaps in the story, I would have liked to understand more about the feelings of the English people who lived in this area during world war 2. There wasn't any real mention of any homesickness or how they felt being so far away from loved ones in England.
5 A very enjoyable read. You become good friends with all of the characters and it all ends up not perfect but very satisfying.  Enjoyed the historical aspect as well as locales that are not usually seen.
5 Srinagar in Kashmir, bothtoday's war- ridden city, whereterrorist bombs explode in front ofneon-lit hotels and the peacefullakeside town of Colonial India comealive thanks to Rosie Thomas's  verywell written book.The atmosphere of the Forties, theperiod of the Rajahs and BritishOfficer's Clubs  and elegant houseboatsfloating on Srinagar Lake against today'smisery ,unemployement and unresolvedreligious conflicts... Secret loves  ofBritish officers' or Welsh Missonaries'wives against  21-th century'syoung women's free relationship with men...The beautiful friendship of three womenduring WW2 seen seventy years later bya grand-daughter of one of them... Thisstory is rich in events, contrasts and emotions: Ihighly recommend it.Five stars.(see also my review of Rosie Thomas's "White")Elisheva Guggenheim-Mohosh, Geneva, Switzerland
4 This is a story of a grandmother and a granddaughter who travel the same roads, but in different time period. Mair finds a shawl made of kashmir, and a lock of hair, in her fathers belongings after he passes away. Curiosity grabs a hold of Mair causing her search back to where it came from. She knows that her grandparents were Welsh missionaries in India before and during World War II, so she packs up and sets out for India.The beginning of this book is a bit misguided. I am not sure what the author wants me to think, since there was an abundance of descriptive words. Eventually the author changed the writing style and I found it flowed much easier.The book begins to move back and forth between Mair and her grandmother, Nerys. Nerys experiencing and living the life as a privileged wife in the British Raj. Once the author starts writing about India, you are taken on a ride that will overwhelm all five senses. Each descriptive word helps you to understand how everything must have smelled, tasted, sounded, and felt like.It wasn't until the author made the connection between grandmother and granddaughter, that I found myself completely interested in the book. Up until this point, I didn't dislike or like the book, I was basically neutral about it.I loved how the author was able to interweave the stories to all come together almost as one. There was a great sense of adventure and romance in both lives of Nerys and Mair. Overall I would give this book a 4/5. I neglected one point for the confusion and jumble in the beginning of the book that originally made it hard to get into the book.[...]
5 I enjoyed this book enormously, it was fascinating and kept me longing to get back to it when I had to put it down. I will retread t, there was so much to enjoy.
4 "The Kashmir Shawl" is an epic that spans countries and generations, following one woman's search to uncover the story of her grandmother.Mair and siblings are sorting through their dead father's belongings when Mair finds a beautiful shawl, and within the shawl a lock of hair. The exquisite craftsmanship of the shawl captures Mair's imagination, and she recalls that her grandmother, Nerys, the owner of the shawl, once lived in India with her missionary husband.Mair decides to journey to India to uncover her grandmother's history, and her story alternates with that of Nerys as a young, newly married woman.This is an engrossing, interesting novel, and while I enjoyed both perspectives, Nerys' was my favorite--her devotion to the two friends she makes in India, and her love and sexual awakening with Rainer, made for compelling, emotional reading. While Mair is also a good character, and I enjoyed her journeys through India, it was Nerys who really captured my attention. The author made both an exotic country and a particular era in time come alive for me.I would recommend this novel to readers who enjoy historic fiction, fiction about strong bonds between women, and romantic fiction.
5 he Kashmir Shawl,  written by Rosie Thomas, opens with Mair Ellis and her siblings going through their deceased father's home in present day North Wales.  The discovery of an exquisite Indian made shawl and an envelope containing a lock of hair ignites Mair's curiosity to uncover their history. How had they become part of her father's possessions?  Nerys Watkins, Mair's grandmother, died before Mair was born.  Nerys and her husband, Evan, had served as missionaries in India in the 1940's and Mair travels to India to learn what she can about their time there and, hopefully, the history of the shawl and the lock of hair.The story is told both in the present and the past, gracefully alternating between the voices of Mair and Nerys.  While Mair tries to reconstruct Nerys's time in Srinigar the author gives the reader the treat of reading Nerys's accounting of her life.  Even though Mair and Nerys share commonalities, they remain two distinctly different personalities.  Each grapples with their own issues. I felt that the more Mair learned about Nerys, the more she began to understand herself.I found this to be a story worth telling.  The author skillfully interweaves many different stories all the while captivating the reader.  Life is given to a diverse group of interesting characters.  History, mystery, great loves and losses as well as a carefully constructed story are the characteristics of this novel.  I find myself hoping for a sequel.  This is a memorable book and I recommend reading it.I received this book free of charge from Author Marketing Experts, Inc. and the opinions expressed are my own.
4 Rating 4.5 out of 5The Kashmir Shawl is a beautifully written book with a rather interesting plot. The book starts out with Mair and her brother and sister settling their father's estate after his death. While going through the things, Mair comes across an old, gorgeous, Kashmir shawl. It had belonged to their grandmother, Nerys Watkins. Along with the shawl is a clipping of hair and Mair is suddenly gripped with a desire to learn about the history of the shawl along with her grandmother.The quest takes Mair all the way to India where she travels the route of the making of the shawl as well as trying to find out where her grandmother would have been and how she possibly could have come by such an exquisite piece of workmanship.The book switches back and forth between Mair in the present to Nerys in the past, so you actually get to know all of the story and all of the circumstances that surround the shawl. Nerys was a missionary's wife and was sort of finding it hard to accept her husband's calling. After making some new friends, she goes to stay with them for a time, her husband thinking it would be best for her health. There she finds a whole new world opened to her and the events all start falling into place that will lead to her getting the shawl into her possession.I did enjoy reading the book, it was definitely interesting and was very well written. There were a few times that it would shift between the past and present and it'd take me a moment to realize that had occurred so it was a bit confusing if you don't realize the change has happened. The characters were nicely developed and the history was really well laid out so that it all felt real and you could visualize the places, time periods, etc. very well.If you enjoy historical romance, mystery, and just an entertaining story, I think you'd enjoy the book.
4 This book is a must for anyone who tries to follow their ancestry and to understand their behaviour and motivations. It moves well between Wales and India and one generation to the next. The journey to India retracing her grandparent's steps was fascinating and does show well that there is only 7 degrees of separation in this world.
4 I really liked this book. The characters were so interesting. I haven't visited India, but I'd sure like to go and see this region of the country. I'd like to read more of Ms. Thomas' books.
4 The Kashmir Shawl, written by Rosie Thomas, is a poignant novel centered around a young woman's discovery of a beautiful shawl and lock of hair that she finds while cleaning out her deceased parents' house in Wales. Mair seems to be a bit at loose ends in her life so decides to head to India to discover the story behind the shawl and who the lock of hair belongs to. There are really two stories in this book and the author weaves them together beautifully. One story is Mair's and her adventures in India while searching for the shawl's story as well as for who the people are in a picture she finds. The descriptive details of India both present day and in the 1940s are wonderful. They really help the reader to smell, see and hear the country. I found these details drew me in almost as much as the story itself did. The second story is that of Mair's grandmother, Nerys, as she deals with moving from Wales to India with an emotionally distant husband and the resulting friendships. Also in the book is the story of how Kashmir shawls are made and, if you want to think deeply, this process becomes symbolic of both Mair's and Nerys' lives. This is the type of book you pack to take to the beach for a long afternoon of reading. The writing is beautiful and flows over the pages so effortlessly that is transports the reader back in time to Nerys' life. Rarely does a book do a rich culture like India's justice but The Kasmir Shawl handles it brilliantly. A must read for summer!
5 A lovely read, full of interesting information whilst being a novel at the same time. I really wanted the book to go on for much longer,
5 This is a beautifully written book. It's colours are so wonderfully described-the scenery and the shawl. it is also great on an Kashmiri history.
4 .Title: The Kashmir ShawlAuthor: Rosie ThomasReviewer: George ShadowSummary:The two female protagonists in the story undergo the hurt of seeing very close friends go through many tragic experiences in the course of their separate journeys. Nerys Watkins travels with her missionary husband around India's villages, helping him as best an evangelist's wife should while he spread the good news. She achieves a lot, though, beginning a small school and caring for many. Mair, the granddaughter, later finds the Kashmir Shawl, taking the opportunity to search for its origins.Social/Historical Context:This is an expansive tale of colonial India and its relationship with its bordering states during World War II. A story concerning betrayals, tragedy, love and hate during a trying time in India's history.  One structured around the role of the Raj in that period in history, as well as the journeys of two women, Nerys and Mair.Writing Style:The English is simple and the narrative is smooth. The characters are fully developed (especially the women) and the historical background of the time is a sound one. The men seem to be somewhat flat, I must say, but this doesn't affect the overall praise I have for the story and its ending.My Thoughts:This story was well thought out. It exudes India's history in all its pages, and teaches a lot about love, hate, despair and hope. I really enjoyed it.George Shadow is the author of THE BLACK BOOK.
5 I liked The Kashmir Shawl so much that I would have given it more than 5 stars if I could have.  It was the kind of book that you want to read all night because it is so good but that you don't want to come to an end!  I liked the dual but related stories being told side by side.  I don't always like historical novels but I enjoyed how this was done.  It drew me into both stories and both sets of characters.  I enjoyed reading about the different parts of the Kashmir area; the descriptions made it seem very real-beautiful but a difficult place to love.  I might be more sad to have finished this wonderful book if I didn't have Rosie Thomas's next book, Constance, to read next.
5 I've just had a wonderful literary trip through Wales, Kashmir and many other small villages in India--one of the places I have always wanted to visit... And Rosie Thomas provided many engaging companions with which to make those travels! This was my first reading for Thomas and I'm so happy to have the opportunity to travel with her. Yes, we were traveling together just because her descriptions were so beautifully presented. She took time to describe the land in which she had her characters fall in love with and sometimes, readers will just feel like you are there too..."Ness," or Nerys Watkins captured most of my attention as she traveled next to her missionary husband in response to his call to serve in India. She is really the focal point of everything happening, but sees herself only as an "adjunct" to the missionary. But watch how she gathers the village children, beginning a small school as well as caring for so many there... Later, she becomes even more the one "creating" the story!The story begins and ends with Mair, the granddaughter, who upon the death of her last parent, finds the Kashmir Shawl. She is the youngest of three children, single, and has no real commitments in life, so she takes the opportunity to "track" where the Shawl came from, and the story behind it. While Mair is greatly affected by her travels, it is secondary to the main story, so I won't say too much about it, except that I loved how Mair "closed out" everything just like her grandmother would have wanted. A truly remarkable story of family and agape love...One thing that was interesting to me was that the Shawl that was made was so uniquely created that Mair had a hard time even finding individuals who knew how it was done. It is Mair, however, through her search, that we learn even more about making the shawls... From those who kept the animals on to those who spun and then made them. The best shawls would take up to a year to make! No wonder it had been declared as a dowry, don't you think?It really is a small world, isn't it? Nerys and her husband traveled from Wales with Nerys knowing little of the language, yet she started to sing and play with the children, and by taking the children in, feeding them, she began the real community that developed. Not trying to discount the work of her husband, but there were two major religions in the region, so converts to Christianity--Evan was a Presbyterian minister--was slow and most of the work was in helping the community with food and medical assistance. Soon, though, the minister decided to travel to smaller communities and, because of the weather, decisions were made that affected Nerys' entire life...There were few English speaking individuals where the mission was located, so any type of social event, included Evan and Nerys because of his position in the community. It was during such an event that Nerys and Myrtle became close friends, even though they were from different social circles. Myrtle's husband was a British Officer and she was left alone often so that the women became even closer...Then as Evan began traveling during the winters which were so severe, he suggested that Nerys accompany Myrtle and her husband to visit at their home until he was able to come.But Myrtle's husband soon went back to war. And Caroline and Rainer came into their lives through one of the last social events.Caroline was a young wife of another soldier. She was so sad and in need of help that both Myrtle and Nerys became close and took her under their wings...Especially when she had come to them about a pregnancy--that was not caused by her husband. Nearly everybody had known that she and the Prince had been involved. But nobody had known that she had been a virginuntil they had been intimate. But, of course, the Prince and his family would never consider her as a potential wife...So the three women devised a plan...In the meantime, Nerys had gained her own admirer. While Evan had briefly engaged in sexual relations for his relief, it had left Nerys perhaps more vulnerable than she would have been. Rainer was a magician and much more, that is kept secret...And so those four friends bonded together to help Caroline through her pregnancy. There was danger because the Prince had warned that there could be no shame brought upon his family. So they hid the child in various places until the day that Rainer planned an escape, which appeared to lead to an accidental death of those involved...There is so much to discover in this 460+ page epic novel! The missionary life, the village life for those involved in the making of beautiful shawls, the lives of military wives, left alone by their soldier husbands, their fear and loneliness...and their subsequent deep friendships with other women. Truly a memorable story of the love and friendship gained in living together in times of turmoil and war...Highly recommended as an historical novel as well as a magnificent drama of life in a beautiful part of India...GABixlerReviews
5 This was a surprise book, as books as this don't interest me much, however this one was the exception. I not onlyEnjoyed it, I learned from it. It was not about the wealthy and privileged, although they were there, it gave  suchInsight on how the poverty ridden survived and even thrived.  It also gave much insight on the missionariesAnd their roll in India(actually the Kashmir) the the daily lives of themselves and the poor they served and theStory that was woven between now and World War 2. The callousness of British involvement in India stillDisturbs me.I read it on my Kindle and am looking for the authors other books.
5 Every once in a very great while a book just grabs your attention and refuses to let go - and that is exactly what happened whenThe Kashmir Shawl: A Novelarrived at my door yesterday morning from author Rosie Thomas' publisher. I was just sitting there on the couch drinking a cup of tea when the doorbell rang and my neighbor handed me this book-shaped package.  So, since I was drinking tea I decided to read the first page, and then the second and then just one more . . . . and I forgot about almost everything that I had planned to do yesterday.  Yes, I did do the dishes - wash 5, read 3 pages while they dried - and I did play Chefville on Facebook - read 3 pages while the game loads, click 5 times, read 3 more (I've always been good at multitasking).  I turned the last page just shy of midnight and I almost can't wait to read it again!Set in World War II India during the last days of the Raj as well as modern-day Kashmir,The Kashmir Shawl: A Novelis a gem of a book, an epic romance just vaguely reminiscent of The Far Pavilions, full of beautifully drawn word pictures that bring the same sort of sense of surroundings that Kipling does in Kim.Grandma's $0.02 - This is probably the single best book I've read in several years. Very highly recommended.PS -  There is nothing in here to make you uncomfortable if your teenager picks it up.  (Why is it so many "romance" novels these days are little more than pornography?)
4 Interesting to read about another culture so different from ours. Also the weaving procedures, the villages high up in the mountains, the habits of the simple people.I liked it.
5 A beautiful story. Rosie Thomas is keeps you engrossed from the start to finish..Can't wait to read another of hers
5 This is one of the best books I have read in sometime. Its so beautifully written, so discriptive I felt like I was there on the journey with these women. I enjoyed it so much I will read more of Rosie Thomas work with relish. I have recommended it to all women I know
5 One of the best insights into the real India ! I enjoyed every moment especially the cultural aspects of the book . Well done
5 A lovely story well written and very engaging. The connections and links are smooth and the whole story flows. Highly recommend as a good read.
5 The Kashmir Shawl is a wonderful story. It has everything I enjoy in a book. It has an interesting setting, pace, great characterization and becomes instantly engrossing. I want to give it to all my friends for presents.Rosie Thomas manages to incorporate all her objectives in a very enjoyable way. I think it is a wonderful book and will surely find myself re-reading it in the not too distant future.
5 This is a wonderful and touching story,I could not put it aside for to long .......Rosie hits you in the heart with one,and I think it's one of her best ....a great read
5 I thoroughly enjoyed this book. It is well written , informative , and exciting.always enjoy Rosie Thomas and this was one of her best
5 Has a lot in it about what humans need to do to survive, and just how hard and stressing life can be at times. Did just love the setting and how war just makes a regular mess of things and people.Absolutely should be a MOVIE. Was hard to put down but one must get sleep!
4 Loved the way it brought India to life and I enjoyed the comparisons between the ages. A lovely read with highs and lows and love and laughter.
5 This story keeps you interested all the way through.  Very well woven together pieces from two eras!  I like stories about India.
4 An interesting  idea,but a bit beyond plausibility that Caroline would be the contact who could provide information on the past.
5 Quite well written.  I like stories that jump back and forth in time and this one definitely &#34;weaves&#34; generations of different families together.  A mystery discovery takes the leading character on an unexpected journey into her family history.  Lovely.  I read it cover to cover and thought about it many times afterward....
3 I'm probably not a good reviewer for this book as I lost interest right away.  I am more into biographies and autobiographies.  It is probably very good for the right person.  I am an older reader and I couldn't imagine being in this situation about a shawl.  It also reminded me of the hippie era and that is not something I am interested in.
4 I enjoyed this book. It was written in an often used genre where past and present stories are told alternatively. I liked the &#34;past&#34; story as it reflected the times in India pre and post WW2 times. The &#34;present&#34; story I thought was a bit contrived and it was a bit rushed at the end where all the loose ends were quickly tied up to give the predictable happy ending. Overall I enjoyed the book and found it interesting, informative as well as &#34;light&#34;. readeng
4 I loved everything about this book. Even liked the way it went from the present back to the past. Normaly I tend to get lost when this happens but found this was well written and did not confuse me. Almost felt part of the book. Found it fascinating from the begining to the end.
5 I love her sensitive character insights, the strong women she writes about.The subject matter is always intelligent and very very believable. The cultural insights in this novel are fascinating. I will never hold a Kashmir Shawl and not think of the origins as she descibes and explains them. The craft and place are  integral, so cleverly woven into a reallycompelling story.
5 Thomas has used her imagination to upgrade our understanding of what has happened to two and more generations since MM Kaye wrote the Far Pavilions. The Shawl takes a harder look at the lives of the people who lived there in the time of the Raj, an even harder look at what has become of the place todayThose who have not been to Kashmir before, in person or in your mind, may join me in applauding such a well crafted return to studying the women of this distant kingdom.
5 The story is beautifully narrated across the lives of people who found a thread in their ancestry. India is described with love and a true feeling of what it gives to so many who have lived with the people of that incredible country.The shawl is an example of one of many  cottage industries that give livelihood to those that toil hard to bring food and money to the home by creating works of art to behold and cherish for many years.Rosie, thanks for bring back those memories.
4 This book follows two stories, one in the present and one in the past as Mair tries to find the story behind the kashmir shawl and lock of hair belonging to her grandmother that she finds after her father's death. Rosie Thomas always draws convincing flawed but sympathetic characters  and you can't help but be captivated by their stories.
5 Here is an author who knows human characters and how to pull a really interesting story together so that it flows.  This story covered two vastly different eras.  One set in the forties just prior to, during, and immediately after WWII.  Then the second era about fifty odd years later.  This was all set in a country so fascinatingly portrayed. The differences in the cultures of those times, the characters and lifestyles depicted so vividly.  It held my interest from start to finish.
4 The  test of a good read is, in my opinion, rushing through a boring task (like housework) in order to sit down and read a few chapters.  Conversely, one may avoid reading towards the end of a good book, not wanting the story to end.  The Kashmir Shawl was such a book.I've always enjoyed reading about Colonial India and its  relationships with neighboring states.  I located most of the locations mentioned in the book on a world map, and followed Nerys and Mair's journeys with great interest.  This was my first book by this author, and I was impressed with how thoroughly she researches her history.  To enjoy a book and actually learn a little bit about history is a great combination.  The characters were richly drawn, with the women seemingly stronger than the men.  Caroline's and Nerys's  romantic affairs were treated with dignity no matter what the outcome, or the reasons behind them.  The men were for the most part very stiff, caught up in their own roles of the Raj in that period of history.  Then again, the book is more about the women left behind than the military battles of that time.  If the final link between the past and present stories was a little implausible,  it did allow for the story to finally wind down, with an expected and pleasant ending.Seven years of employment in a bookstore have taught me that many novels labeled and located in the "romance" section are actually just good historical fiction.  I encourage anyone who enjoys a good book, a la Maeve Binchy and Kate Morton  (to name a few) to try this one.
4 This family story follows two at first parallel and then intersecting family stories about a woman and her grandmother in wales and India.  It isn't a tough read, but does spin an entertaining and heartfelt tale.  A beach read with a bit more substance and a feel good ending.
2 Readable but rather long and slow.  Several people in my book club enjoyed it but it did not do much for me.  There are two story lines and the story set in the 1940s was far more interesting with more lively characters than the present day story.
5 I just loved this book with its transport through decades and its vivid descriptions of India pre and post war.  The characters were admirable and despicable, beautiful and ugly all at once.
4 I am a total sucker for books that have a double narrative, although one story usually pulls me in more than the other. In this case, I was generally interested in both strands, although I preferred it when the story stayed in India. I would, on occasion, like to read a book with a missionary character who is not stereotypically cold or sexless, as I've yet to see that in fiction. However, the two female characters both in the past and present were compelling, and I was glad for the happy ending.
5 Thoroughly enjoyed this book, could not stop reading it.. just had to find out how it ended, fantastic story line
5 The book had a strong story that was interwoven between two generations.  I really loved the characters which seemed to come alive in the story.  I also liked the different twists and turns in the book.  I would highly recommend the book.
3 There are a lot of rave reviews about this, I'm not sure why. By the end of this book I felt a bit &#34;meh&#34; about it all. The story follows the mystery of a quilt, with interspersed narrative in the present day and at the time of the quilt's creation. I felt the plot was very laboured, it didn't flow along and I had to force myself to continue the effort in reading it to learn what happened. I'd perhaps recommend this to older readers, 50+.
4 I deeply enjoyed The Kashmir Shawl and loved all the historical detail, but particularly the imagery of different countries at different times.I did find some of the twists and turns were a little predictable, such as the romantic finish; and the way certain characters are abruptly dragged into centre stage, so you realize they are going to be the key to the whole mystery.  While I would have preferred these elements to be more subtly introduced, I loved how the story had a logical flow and all the seemingly incongruous elements fitted neatly into place.
4 This book by Rosie Thomas is well written and researched. I liked the juxtaposition of different times and places, in the past and the now, in England and in India. I felt empathy with her characters and her detail of life in India was believable. A good read.
4 This is an exellent book, a great story line, easy reading with a great story line giving a sneak look into the life of rural India.  Was easy to follow and I found it hard to put down. I felt as though I was there in person.
4 I did really like this book and the historical knowledge along with it, but some of the shawl making descriptions may have gone on a little too long for my taste (but then again that is the &#34;main character&#34; of the story). It kept me interested in both eras of the story, but the one in the past more-so. I found myself looking at satellite maps to see what the towns in India looked like. I had to keep wondering at the end though if she didn't go back for another visit, might Caroline have been in another state of mind and the book would have ended differently/had more closure. Still, it was enjoyable, and I would read a sequel if there were one.
3 Unfortunately it does not give me an insentive to carry on reading this book,I am hoping  maybe to try again in the future
5 What can I say this book is fantastic I just did not want to put it down, the storyline is very well thought out and put to paper, I shall remember this one for a long time...
5 This could be rated a ten star.  You can't get a better written book.  Chapter after chapter of a story that is believable, and filled to the brim with interesting characters.  I will be reading this one again.
3 This book was slow to take off but once it did I enjoyed it, particularly the wonderful setting in India.
5 I chose this rating because this Author transmitted me to India and Gave me more understanding of life ,as it would have been back then. I was on the Houseboat, up in the Mountains being so cold. Felt the heartaches that were occuring, the Laughter, The Poverty , the sadness. I felt the softness of the Kashmir Shawl and had the wonder of its colours.Thank you Rose Thomas for a lovely story.Marney
5 From the very beginning, The Kashmir Shawl is a compelling read. Told through the eyes of Mair, one of the Watkins children after the death of both parents, it is a trip into the past to uncover the secret of a priceless Kashmir shawl found tucked away by their long deceased mother. Mair uncovers the story of her parents, the Welsh Reverend Watkins and his naive wife Nerys, who headed to India to bring Christianity to the Indian people in remote villages right before World War II. This story is beautifully written, with tremendous depth and a deft hand for description. Rosie Thomas is marvelous at character development, creating living, breathing, fallible, conflicted people. Nerys, for example, starts out as a naive woman, taking her direction completely from her remote and physically unapproachable husband. After she has a miscarriage in the remote area where they are missionaries, she starts to change. She asks herself, but only herself, a question that I have always wondered - why Christian missionaries believe that people in other cultures must be converted from their beliefs. When a couple who have been hunting big game further out than even Nerys and her husband live, come through their village heading back to the city, Nerys befriends them, making the best friend of her life with Myrtle McMinn. When Evan decides to send Nerys back to the city with the McMinns, so that he can focus on even more remote areas without having to care for her, he unwittingly sets into motion events that will forever and irrevocably change their marriage and their lives. It is when winter cuts her off from her husband that Nerys comes into her own and is entrenched in the events that lead to the presence of the Kashmir shawl in her daughter's possession some fifty years later. This  was a remarkable read and a fascinating journey to a land, a village lifestyle, and a time that no longer exists.
4 What a story Rosie Thomas was written, she had me walking with the Characters through the streets in India. I could almost smell the goats, as was described. We experience the life with the Raj, and the slums.The story begins with the death of her father, Mair finds a beautiful Kashmir Shawl among the belongings. She also finds an old envelope with some hair stored in it. Thus begins her quest for answers, and her trip to India.There are actually two stories told here, some of it we know but Mair never has all the answers. Mair's Grandmother Nerys and Grandfather Evan are missionaries to India, with WWII going on in 1941, we are about to experience life there. Nerys spends time with Myrtle, and Carolyn, you will enjoy the fun times they make out adversity.I really recommend this as a Historical read, so very interesting. Even when Mair goes there, there is fighting between the Hindu's and the Muslims. So very sad.Putting this combined story together is a real page turner, and even though the book is a bit long, it was a quick read.I received this book through The Bookreporter giveaway, and was not required to give a positive review.
4 Very pleasant positive easy read, nice story , refreshing,a bit of history of India,mostly during the second world war and intrvine with present times, an adventure by pretty girl looking for her family roots .
4 I enjoyed this book, it wasn't too melodramatic and the main two female characters were likeable and relateable at the same time it transported you back to a place in time and history
5 Sweet story of a young woman in search of her grandmother who was a missionary in turn of the century northern India, a mysterious Kashmir shawl and a lock of hair wrapped inside it. &#34;What a tangled web we weave&#34; should have been the title. This book was recommended by a friend. I am not a romance reader, but this book is more a mystery than a love story. Well researched. Thoroughly enjoyed it.
4 I was very surprised at the pleasure I got out of reading this book. It was very believable, entertaining with just the right appeal to want ot carry on reading. Beautiful.
5 I enjoyed this book from first to last page. It was well written, the subject and content of the story had me wanting to keep reading. Rosie Thomas painted a word picture of the places and events.
5 When Mair discovers an antique shawl which she believes must have had some special significance for her mother or grandmother she sets out to find out more about her family and the history of the shawl. Mair's search takes her to Northern India.  There, her experiences parallel  those of  her grandmother some sixty years earlier as each woman discovers the beauty of India and the strength of friendship.  Rosie Thomas brings the remote northern Indian villages to life with her vivid description of sight and smell.  Her characters are well drawn and very believable.  The friendship which develops among three very different women in wartime India  has us warming to all three - Myrtle who is  the life of the club at Srinagar, Caroline who is  still a virgin a year after marriage, and Nerys, the missionary's wife, who is  enjoying a bit of frivolity for the first time in her life.  And as we discover more about Nerys,  we can see her intelligence, determination and sensitivity repeated in her granddaughter, Mair.  A thoroughly enjoyable read.mlr
5 This book was an absolute delight, I loved it!I discovered Rosie Thomas by accident, could an accident have such a delightful recovery.After finishing this book I wanted all my friends and family to share in my joy.
5 The Kashmir Shawl by Rosie Thomas is a mystery with a bit of romance as the main character, Mair Ellis, discovers a beautifully woven shawl that belonged to her grandmother Nerys Watkins. From that moment Mair's search for how the shawl ended up in the possession of her missionary grandmother, who served in India along side her husband, the Reverend Evan Watkins. Mair's search leads her to various regions of India and Switzerland before the mystery is solved.Along the way you will meet Myrtle, Archie, Caroline, Ralph, Lotus, Karen, Bruno, Ranier, Prita and Zahra all memorable characters in their own right as Thomas skillfully creates each one with great care.Adding to the book's richness and detail is the excellent writing as the author, Thomas, carefully crafts writing hooks that will keep you reading until you finally reach the end of her well-written book.Overall, this book could be read by almost any age of reader except for a brief passage on page 168 where there is a somewhat explicit sexual scene.This is a fine book, as richly woven as the shawl described in her book The Kashmir Shawl, and one that will keep you reading late into the night.Highly recommend.Disclaimer: This review was written after receiving a book for an honest review. All books received by me may or may not be reviewed by me. There was no financial compensation received for reviewing this book other than the book sent by the author or publisher for potential review by me.
4 I really enjoyed this book, it is totally different to other stories that I have read and it was one of  those books that you cant put down.
4 I really enjoyed this book.  The characters were really likeable and it was well written - an easy reading book that can be picked up and put down when necessary (for those with small children!). India has now crept up by list of places to visit!
5 Beautifully woven, just like a Kashmir shawl
5 Just loved this story. I was enticed by the cover and I seemed to be drawn to stories about women and their lives  loves, disappointments and dream. This covered it all, a lovely story and an insight into what I always thought of as a romantic era.
5 I've always been a fan of epic books that span continents and generations, war and peace, love and loss and this book is no exception. From the beginning of the page until the very end I was utterly enthralled with the world that Thomas has spun in this book, The Kashmir Shawl. It's a book that is perfect for the winter, curled up with a blanket + tea (or hot chocolate), the kind of book to gift someone who is an avid reader, and definitely a book to share with those who enjoy books set in the World War I/II times (especially the time that Nerys spends with the British while in Kashmir. It's so interesting to get glimpses into the culture and how people dealt with war) Don't let the length of the book deter you from picking it up; you'll be glad you did when all is said and done with this gem of a book!
5 I found this heartfelt story very entertaining. It had a viewpoint on the middle east that I thought came from honesty. The characters were very real.
3 Not as good as some of her other books but still a very pleasant, easy to read & well researched book.
5 This was my 3rd Rosie Thomas book, having just discovered her.  Great character development, real characters (flaws and all as in real life) , good story, a robust 400+ page book and she knows how to close without leaving you hanging and wanting to know more.  I guess I would call her a global Nora Roberts on steroids.Glad to see more of her books becoming available on kindle.
3 This book begins with a very intriguing premise - a mysterious heirloom discovered by the protagonist, and from there the journey starts. From Welsh valleys to the barren, cold Leh to lush Kashmir valley, it is interesting and keeps the reader engaged. I liked the book and how it shifts between 1940s and the present day.There is a lot of history that apparently is uncovered, but I took all of it with a pinch of salt, as it seems that much of the research was done half heartedly. For instance, as one of the central characters of the book is first a Dogra, and then portrayed as a Kashmiri, a difference as stark as say between Welsh and a Scots. Very different people.That said, it is a nice book to read on a train journey, but not a literary effort by any stretch of imagination.
4 One of those books that once you start you can't put it down. A wonderful insight into the lost pashmina industry of Kashmir, brilliantly written, with wonderful characters.
5 This book was a jolly good read that keeps you page turning to the end.  I found it quite educational as well as I know nothing of that part of the world.  The blend of going from the 1940s to the present day was beautifully done.  Highly recommended.
4 A totally enjoyable book.  I did get a bit confused when it transitioned from one main character to another.  A friend recommended it and I'm glad she did.  I found the descriptions of India were especially in depth and helped so much with the story line.  I'd never read any book of what was occurring in India during World War II and it's impact on the population.  This was especially enlightening.  It has also certainly enlightened me on weaving and the depths of how masterpieces are made.
5 How well do we know our family? How much of our parents or grandparents life stories are lost with them?This book looks at the complex natures not only within families but within our own relationships as husbands, wives and friends. Like the shawl itself, this tale is intricately woven and wraps you up as you float through the pages. Every character is well thought out and developed and you feel like you are right there with them.It is a story that looks at marriages and the roads that lead you together and then apart (and sometimes back together again), it is about children and the impact they have on your life (whether you have them or not) and how sometimes there are choices to be made that impact every element of your life.The story jumps between current day and the 1940's and while there are snippets of Wales, the majority of it is set in India.I have not read anything else by Rosie Thomas - but this was a great read and I could recommend it to anyone looking for a historical/drama with a touch of romance x
4 I loved this book - I found it well written and the characters become people who one becomes interested in learning a bit more about and gaining a little bit of knowledge about India and the making of Kashmir Shawls made it a great story.  I would definitely recommend this book.
4 I was very much on board, glad to travel alongside the characters into the time warp of the British community in Kashmir and Ladakh during the Second World War.The plot held my interest while the descriptions of India, the smells and sights were so evocative that I couldn't help thinking the author had either written with first hand experience of the location or else had done some fine research.After finding the Kashmir shawl in her mother's house, a missionary's grand daughter traces its history, via family line, to discover a yet more powerful story, involving calamities that occurred during WWII.I particularly like well written books where part of the pleasure is in the writing itself.
5 If you have never been to India this story will open a new chapter for you.Wonderful storytelling.  You will not want to put it down.
5 The Kashmir Shawl is a beautifully woven tale. It captured the feel of Colonial India and did a wonderful job of bring to life the characters.The story begins when Mair Ellis, while helping her siblings clear out their Father's house, finds a beautiful shawl carefully tucked away. Within the folds of the shawl she discovers a lock of hair. The siblings conclude this must have been a memory from the days of their Grandmother, Nerys Watkins and her missionary husband Evan, who were assigned to India. Mair decided to travel in her missionary grandparents foot steps to find the purpose of this carefully preserved treasure.Thomas does a masterful job of telling the tale of Nerys. As the granddaughter slowly traces the story of the shawl, the reader is able to experience the adventure and romance in the lives of both Narys and Mair.
5 Reviewed by MariaBook provided by NetGalley for reviewReview originally posted at Romancing the BookI read my first Rosie Thomas novel THE WHITE DOVE more than two decades ago. I found it to be a memorable read, an historical novel set in the early years of the 20th century. Twenty five years later, it&#8217;s delightful to see Ms. Thomas is still penning historical works of the same, noteworthy quality. She still has that quality of producing spellbinding dialogue and even more memorable characters not to mention compulsive story lines which literally drag you in.THE KASHMIR SHAWL is both historical and contemporary. It&#8217;s the story of Mair (pron. Mayar, Welsh for Mary) Ellis, a young woman who comes to India to discover something of the unknown history of her grandmother, Nerys Watkins, the wife of a nonconformist missionary pastor. At the same time, it&#8217;s Nerys&#8217; story too. Nerys, the eager young pastor&#8217;s wife, who took up life in the mission field some seventy years previously. Side by side, Mair and Nerys&#8217; stories unfold. Nerys had married straight out of teacher training college. At a somewhat more mature age, Mair still hasn&#8217;t settled down although we see her sharing drinks, a long chat and an obvious attraction with Bruno, the father of a young family, the Beckers, which she meets on her travels. We sense her dismay at the growing attraction and her eagerness to put a lid on it. Mair isn&#8217;t the sort of girl who would just go after another woman&#8217;s man.The story of Nerys is visible to the reader, but not to Mair. She has to be content with some cryptic clues her grandmother has bequeathed from the past. A beautiful Kashmir shawl in a now obsolete style of work known as &#8216;kani&#8217; and a lock of hair.As readers we see Nerys in the Srinagar club with her friends, fellow British Raj wives Myrtle McMinn and Caroline Bowen. Caroline&#8217;s marriage to a rough army officer is a most disappointing union, leading the vulnerable young woman to seek the love that eludes her in an affair with a young Indian man from a princely family, who is most certainly using her. It&#8217;s actually use verging on abuse, albeit of a mental kind. British but Indian born Myrtle, with her incessant cigarette smoking, her dry sense of humour and non-judgmental stance in matters of the heart, is one of the more memorable characters in the story. And dear, lovely Nerys, the ever practical pastor&#8217;s wife. Her idealistic and shy husband prays for more converts to his church while Nerys feels, without saying it out, that India has more than enough religions to keep it going and that it would be rather more practical to offer it&#8217;s teeming masses some practical way to exit from the hopeless cycle of poverty. Yet Nerys&#8217;s devotion to duty Is severely tested when she indulges in a short, discreet affair in her husband&#8217;s absence, with a Swiss mountaineer, Rainer Stamm. With Rainer, she touches the heights of passion such as she&#8217;s never experienced with her shy pastor husband, which has never amounted to more than a frantic fumble and a shy goodnight. Yet unlike her immature friend Caroline, who dreams that her Indian lover will try to claim her for his own, Nerys is adamant that she will never leave her husband. She is careful enough to employ contraception and lets her lover know that this can never be more than temporary. She, like the British of her time, knows her duty. As Myrtle puts it quite succinctly, &#8216;we&#8217;re wives of the Raj&#8217;, which to put it another way, means, &#8216;we know our role.&#8217;Mair&#8217;s association with the Becker family ends tragically early in the narrative, after a fatal incident in Leh, in northern India. She meets Bruno Becker again towards the end of the story, and by then a lot of the pieces of the puzzle have fallen into place. She&#8217;s acquired the acquaintance of the nonagenarian Caroline Bowen along with some letters and a powerful photograph. She&#8217;s guessing about Nerys&#8217;s attraction to Rainer Stamm in the way one feels something inwardly. Returning to India with Becker about a year after leaving, there is a sense of completion and that sense that a new chapter is about to start.As I live in the Gangetic Plain of north India and have visited Srinagar in the Jammu and Kashmir State, I can vouch for the authenticity of the narrative. Thomas&#8217;s descriptive prose brings north India alive. She mentions the warm &#8216;pheron&#8217; coats of Kashmir. These coats are often acquired by foreigners and while most of them are made from traditional woolen cloth, I noticed that pherons are also available in a British looking tweed fabric and wondered how that could be. But now, from reading this story, I realize that the tweed pheron came into use during the British rule in India. The British had a tendency to Anglicize a lot of things and the pheron is one of them.As an historical novel, it&#8217;s painstakingly well researched. As a contemporary novel it also comes up to the mark, although I would have liked to know more about Mair as a person in her own right and not just as someone investigating her grandmother. Yes, Mair&#8217;s interesting life is also recorded, but where she goes from here intrigues me a lot. I guess I&#8217;m just hungry for more of her story. Humorous and sometimes tragic but never ever dull, this story from the times the British ruled in India held my attention until the very end.Favorite Quote: From Tibet there were trays of silver, coral and turquoise jewellery, from China painted Thermos flasks and furry nylon blankets in electric hues.
5 The Kashmir Shawl - ReviewFrom the first paragraph to the last Rosie Thomas's novel, The Kashmir Shawl, held my attention.Rosie Thomas's characters are believable and her descriptions of people and places from Mair's last day in her late parent's house in Wales to Kashmir past and present.When Mair sorted out her parents' possessions she found a Kashmir shawl `so light it seemed to float on air; woven in silvery blues and greens ...like a distillation of lake water and spring skies, with starbursts of lavender and vermilion flowers caught in the depths'. And from its folds fell a brown envelope containing a curl of brown hair.The shawl which had belonged to Mair's grandmother is the beginning of a journey into the past and present.Bit by bit Rosie Thomas traces Mair's quest in India and recreates the lives of her grandparents, Nerys and Even, missionaries in Kashmir.The solution to the riddle of the beautiful shawl was a satisfying surprise, and I am full of admiration for this enjoyable novel.Tangled LoveSunday's Child
5 This book would appeal to 90% of the population.  It appears to be true -  part of a family story, that incorporates travel, and life in another country.  More please!
3 This book was way too long for its slim story, but the descriptions of Kashmir were striking.  Apparently the author has written romance novels, and some of that writing crept into this book, much to my dismay.  It cheapened the relationships and brought the narrative to a halt whenever there was a "romantic interlude".  The ending dragged on and on.....then seemed a bit abrupt.
5 Sometimes flashback type books can be a bit annoying - this certainly was not.  Early past is set in pre WWII Kashmir with the later part in modern day Kashmir.  the story was told in both era's - both equally good and complimenting the plot.  Highly recommended.
5 I loved the characters, the time & place, the prose = a good novel!  Can't wait for her new novel, "Constance" Fall of 2013.
4 A lovely story taking you into India and its fascinating past. The interwoven lives of three friends; their joys and sorrows and their affairs of the heart. A story that brings to the fore the love and care that go into the making of such a beautiful garment.
4 A lovely tale which explores the lives of different generations across India and Britain. A sensitive approach and revealing depth of characters.
5 The Kashmir ShawlRosie ThomasTwo women travel the same road but in different time periods in search of their own identity. Mair begins her journey when her father passes away and within his effects she finds a shawl made of Kashmir. The intricate weaving and the story told within the tattered folds of this woven shawl create a tapestry within it that holds a story about the past. As she tries to read his piece and understand each design in the hope of learning more about her grandmother and her life. But, Mair's journey is about to begin as she travels to India, visits places that many would love to see today and experiences first hand how a magnificent Pashmina is made, the weaving, the way the sheep are treated and the landscape that covers that country drawing her in from the start. As she becomes more familiar with the country she meets a young woman named Karen who befriends her, as she is frustrated with her young daughter's behavior and Mair with her acrobatics manages to surprise not only the young child but the mother too. Then the story flashed back to 1941 and we meet Nerys her grandmother whose life is not that much different than hers as she too finds herself trapped in an isolated world controlled by her husband a Reverend devoted to his work. Both women winding up in Srinagar: Mair on her journey to learn more about her past and Nerys with her new found friends to find her present. When things get tough she invites houseguests in order to ease their way and as a result she and the wife become fast friends. When Evan, her husband needs to explore more places for his mission, he encourages her to journey with them and spend some time. With the weather bad, the way hazardous both women wind up in the same place but during different times.With the advent of WWII and the rise of Germany causing problems for some, things begin to change for one woman and the other will explore more as she receives a compelling photo from her brother linking her present to the story from the past. As Mair and Bruno, Karen's husband wanted to visit a special cemetery and see a certain memorial something seems to spark between them. Telling him about her life and sharing her experiences with him realizing he was a good listener. When Lotus, Karen's daughter is attacked by a dog things begin to change as her life is in danger. The story then moves to Nerys and Myrtle in the past as they are enjoying Things changed the some young women had to deal with men being away fighting in the war and then Nerys learns that Evan was not going to join for quite some time. The social classes seem the same as people judge you by appearances, wealth and status even back then. Beggars on the street, learning more about the people, losing sight of where she was and dealing with hostilities Neyrs she learned many new lessons in life. A chance encounter with a magician named Rainer would change this greatly for her. But, another friend whose husband is in the service finds herself dealing with a tenuous situation but can it be solved and will she decide on a different route?The story flashes to Mair and her concern for Lotus. But, she was on a quest and when she enlisted the help of a young Muslim she begins by telling him her story and then he relates the history of Srinagar and more about Kashmir. But, tragedy strikes as Mair prepares to meet someone that might just connect the dots to her past. The past becomes the present as we flash back again and learn more about Neyrs. During her time away and after meeting Myrtle she learned much about men and women and she began to understand an entirely different way of life. When with Rainer she came alive what about Evan?Learning more about Caroline Bowen who comes into light in the present we learn about her indiscretions as we meet her in the present along with Mair. Her life changed and her feelings for one man were turned to another as Nyers came alive. A powerful novel that spans many different time periods and war that would change the complexion of so many lives. Two women caught in a web of their own. One finding freedom and the other finding her past. As Mair talks about Karen and Bruno and their lives dome together again. Both women traveling to Leh and both pasts coming to the present. Then Evan returns and he life was no longer the same just what will she do? But, there is another story that of Caroline, her infidelity and the beautiful child that so many others helped her care for keeping her secret when her husband returned form war.Ravi, Ralph, Archie, Evan and so many others caught up in the times and so many women torn between two different worlds. Lies, deceit, betrayals and much more encompass the world of so many. Ravi turns on someone that cares about him and secrets that some hope will never be revealed. We move to 1945 and the end of the war and Nerys and Rainer. Even though her life remained the same in some aspects it did changed in others as her relationship with Rainer continued but in a different way. When all of the threads of the shawl fit together you won't believe where the final pieces wind up.As Mair brings the shawl where it really belongs we learn more about the fate of so many. Just where did Rainer wind up and did he desert her? What about Prita and what about Zahra when she learns the truth? The past comes full circle in the present as both Bruno and Mair face end together and the final revelations will keep the reader glued to the printed page to find out just why this Kashmir Shawl was so precious.A story told in the voices of both Mair and Nerys with the lives of others intertwined. An ending that will surprise you and a young woman whose past finally just might become her present. For Mair some things just might never change and the folds of the shawl when unwrapped tell an amazing story.
5 Loved this book - you get lots of history the people are so strong and interesting. I was very sad when it ended. It 's always good to read about parts of history and how it affected certain areas of the world.
5 Just enough intrigue in it to make me want to keep reading.I enjoyed the journey through India and the description of the kashmir shawl industry.Such wonderful work for such little reward.to those living in poverty.
5 I loved this book so much that I missed and thought about the characters for days after I finished reading it.  The cast of characters is strong and varied, there are a few twists and turns, and I felt as though I knew the people and the locations.  I hated the book to end.
4 Good bedtime read; not too taxing on the brain but keeps your interest.  Make a good film.Would recommend it.
5 A very different story with incredible family history and wonderful descriptions of the weaving process and the countryside.  Be sure and take the paper cover off the book and enjoy the beautiful, embossed elephant on the hard cover of the book.
3 A young woman finds a beautiful shawl in her parents' house as she cleans it out to sell it. Stoked by a lock of hair which is unlike any of the hair in her family, and a photo of her grandmother with some friends in far-away India, she sets out to figure out the story of the shawl. This is the story of Kashmir Shawl, by Rosie Thomas.Overall, I am glad I read the book, what hurt it for me was the pacing. Thomas intertwines the story of Mair with her grandmother, Nerys, sometimes to good effect, but not always. She would get the reader involved in the lives of Nerys and her friends, then pull away, back to Mair's wandering, and there was a lot of talking about making shawls that really didn't propel the story forward, other than to give her a reason to luckily meet with people who could help her trace her grandmother's story. It seemed a little too pat, and the move quickly/slow way down was a little distracting. I put the book down for a few days, it bugged me that much. I really enjoyed the end, but it seemed hard to get to the climax.Thomas does paint a beautiful picture of the Kashmir of the late 30s and early 40s. One almost can picture the opulently decaying houseboats and colonial society of the times, so clearly I almost want to travel there to see for myself. She shows a loving respect for the area that was refreshing.I would recommend this book, but it's not a life-changing story, rather one that provides a pleasant way to pass a few days.
5 I just loved this book - would give it 6 stars if I could.  The story is very detailed and absorbing - I didn't find any "flat" spots where the plot was a bit slow or anything like that.  I just couldn't put it down throughout the whole book.  It is beautifully written - I could really picture the surroundings as they were described at every point, and felt very "involved" with the whole story.  The author had obviously done a lot of research on India in those days - very intelligently written.  This is the first book of hers I have read, and I was delighted to see that she has written several more.  I have already downloaded another book from this author.
4 Mair Ellis is cleaning out her deceased parents' home in rural Wales and finds a beautiful handwoven shawl forgotten in a drawer, with a lock of hair and a photograph of three women by a lake.  One of the women must be her grandmother, who lived in India as a missionary's wife.  Mair is at a betwixt and between point in her life, and she decides to follow her grandmother's footsteps to Kashmir and learn about how her grandmother's life there.Mair's journey is interwoven with her grandmother's life during World War II in Kashmir, and of her grandmother's two friends in the photo.My love for this book took me by surprise.  I found it similar to Susanna Kearsley, but enjoyed it more for the following reasons: 1) No supernatural events or overly fortunate Google searches move Mair's discoveries forward.  2) Author Thomas balances the timelines skillfully so that the here and now timeline is compelling and important without relying on something from the past to make it all work.  The past adds meaning to the present, but the process of searching for her heritage is as important as what she finds.
4 Mair, her brother, Dylan, and sister, Eirlys , had lost their mother years ago, but when their father passed away, it was time to let go.  The house they had grown up in was to be sold, and all their possessions needed to be distributed.  Eirlys and Dylan had a more traditional life, married, children, but Mair's was a bit more adventurous, even joining the circus for a bit.  Because of Mair's single lifestyle, they decided that a delicate shawl, a photograph and a lock of hair should go to Mair, but no one knew how they came to be.Having no one with any family knowledge she could ask, Mair decided to go to India and research what she could.Years earlier, in the years of World War II, a woman named Nerys married a missionary man, Evan, and moved to India.  Not regretting her decision, she found what a different and difficult lifestyle it was.  She did make a few close friends and their life and adventures are what you will read about.Mair discovers that Nerys was her grandmother and found a few people she could talk to and learn more her grandmother, about the shawl and the photograph.The majority of the story is written through the life of Nerys, but in between the life of Mairs will have it's part. This is not a short story, this is an in-depth and detailed novel, along the lines of Gone With the Wind.  You will read all about the characters in the story and their families and friends, relating to each one along the way.  You will read in great detail all about where they traveled.  The beautiful landscape of India, the poverty, the people, their hard work ethics and traditional family values, the difficulty in traveling with the winter snows.  The characters will show you what love, friendship and trust mean.  The story will show you one woman's quest to find the family history of what her grandmother's life was like.  Very easy to follow, but very detailed, although I don't think the story would have the same effect if the details were omitted.
5 A story that take you across cultural boarder and allows you to consider that different ways different people may respond to the challenges of living in a different culture to one's own. A believable story.
5 I found I could not put this book down. You felt you new the characters and were with them through the book. I enjoyed the history conveyed in the writing. Felt the ending was a little abrupt and was expecting another couple of lines but a good read.
4 Well constructed story. Lovely, interesting people and places. Links between past and present well done. Makes one want to go there.
4 A definite read. I loved it and couldn;t put it down.  It kept your interest all the way. Thanks to my friends for recommending it.
5 Well written, enchanting tale full of humor, love and life in exotic locations which combine the past and the present.
4 Thoroughly enjoyed this book - it was different in the way it unfolded the story of the shawl and showed the vast differences between the pre and post war India and that of the one today. The gentle love story beginning in the background as the story went on was also good.  The one star missing rating is that I felt I should like the main characters to have really known what happened to each other.  But a very good read.
5 The Kashmir Shawl: A Novel, by Rosie Thomas, follows a young girl by the name of Mair.  While Mair is cleaning out her parents house after their deaths, she finds a beautiful Kashmir Shawl, a picture, and a lock of hair that sparks her interest.  She decides that she will travel to India to find out who the lock of hair belonged to, who is the picture she found, and what the shawls story was!  It turns out that the shawl was Mair's grandmother's, Nerys.  The story then goes back and forth between Mair in present day and Nerys back in the 1940's.The author did an amazing job at taking two separate stories and weaving them together into one story with out any confusion.  I'm glad that I decided to take a chance on this amazing book.  It was a page turner from the get go.  I was so entrances with both Mair and Nerys' stories.  I found myself feeling as Mair did, just wanting to know more and understand where the shawl came from.  I would highly recommend this book  to anyone looking for a great read.  Good job to the author, I am looking forward to reading more from Rosie Thomas!
5 Wonderful story that travelled well between the two time frames. It represented the colonial India so well. Really enjoyed it!!
3 I wish Ms. Thomas' editor had worked harder... at 20--30% less, this book would have been great. As it was, a very good, interesting read with some skimming necessary.As one who studied abroad in India in 1980, I loved the description of the landscape. I found the descriptions from the '40s more familiar than the contemporary, which tells you how much this area has changed due to troubles and crowding in the last few decades. But the road to Leh, the gompas, Ladakh, the houseboats in Srinagar... oh, such sweet memories. It was nice to read a novel located there.The characters were also greatly intriguing and interesting, if a few scoundrels thrown in. Overall, a good read.
4 It was a very interesting read as it made the area of Kashmir come to life for me, someone who has never had an opportunity to visit Kashmir.  The story while it was basically very simple was written well and the other incidental characters had  their own important part to play.  It felt as if the facts were real and not something simply made up patching all little stories together together, in an effort to drag out a book.I liked the  book and would recommend it as an interesting read.
5 This lovely story - or two stories as the case may be - is about a welsh girl (Mair) who sets out to discover more about her welsh missionary Grandmother and the beautiful Pashmina that, after the death of her father, she finds in a bottom drawer.  The story is also, however, about her Grandmother (Nerys), who works in Kashmir during the war and the two women she befriends.  There are many different threads to this tale, the Pashmina - how it is made and the village it came from, a daughter born from a forbidden relationship, illicit and exciting romances, as well as the problems of the Kashmiri people and State.A really enjoyable read - maybe more one for the girls rather than the guys, but not necessarily.
5 Interesting and well written. I enjoy books about other times and other places. It was long but I could have read more
1 Do you like romance novels?  Do you go for contrived plot,labored dialogue, unsuccessful attempts at humor, overstating of the obvious, over-the-top sentimentality, zero intellectual content or context?  Do you admire factual inaccuracy and contradictory and incompatible  plot lines?If your answer is yes to the above, re-rate the book with 5 stars and put it on your reading list.Otherwise, don't make the mistake I made by picking up this book.
2 Boring.I thought it was too slow, characters not well defined. Won't read it again. I usually read books more than once, but this book is not worth it
5 Beautifully handled journey following the period of WWII as it impacted on the British Raj era of Kashmir, woven with a contemporary woman's exploration of her grandmother's shawl. How had a missionaryy's wife come by such an exquisite item? The unfolding story was beautiful.
4 Tracing back into a family history can and often does reveal some lovely characters some not so nice and several you would have liked to meet.
5 I loved this book especially how the story moved between present day and the 1940's.  I loved the characters and couldn't wait to se how the whole story would fit together.  It also made me look up kashmir shawls and have a greater appreciation of the culture and workmanship involved in these.  If you like a book that takes you back in time and then pulls you forward  to present day hen you will love this book.  I really liked the pace of the book and how it ended (I was on holiday when I read it and out of the 5 books I took with me this one captivated me the most).  The feel of the 1940's in India and what it was like for European woman there at time was fascinating.
4 At face value, this is very much a clone of a Clive Cussler story, right down to a hero who is also in the marine salvage / archaeology business, who gets tangled up in current crimes which tie into extraordinary historical discoveries. Like Clive Cussler's novels, it's also well-written with a level of detail which neither patronises nor overly challenges the reader.Where it differs from Cussler is that most of the protagonists are troubled, damaged people, and Adams takes pains to explain their state of mind and how they arrived there. This makes a refreshing change from the two dimensional "supermen" heroes too common nowadays, but takes a little getting used to in an otherwise quite lightweight yarn.The novel also has a very refreshing British feel, with several English characters and background elements. In particular the cultural references, banter and even the swearing are distinctly British rather than American, which makes a welcome change!I liked the structure in which the stories of the central characters progress in parallel with each getting time in each chapter, at least until their paths converge. Coupled with good but eminently readable writing, well paced, it makes the book a real page-turner. Towards the end I found the book impossible to put down, and - I hope this doesn't give too much away - I loved the final plot twist and uplifting ending.This is a great yarn. As long as you can treat it on it's own merits you'll have an enjoyable read.
2 I had problems getting into the story not because there was anything wrong with the plot but to understand the characters, at least the main ones you need to have read previous books by this author. I could not relate to any of the characters as a lot of the development has I hope been done in previous books, I also had some problem keeping track of the numerous characters in what was a fairly straight forward treasure hunt with gangsters thrown in for good measure.
4 The plot was very interesting. Daniel Knox, an under water archaeologist, is working for a salvage company who believe they have found the wreck of a Chinese treasure ship. On the day they retrieve the anchor from the sea bed he discovers sand samples suggest there is no treasure in the area, the search has been funded by triads and an ex-lover and her father have gone missing a few miles along the coast. Knox leaves the salvage ship to travel to Eden nature reserve to assist in the search. He is followed to Eden by two Russian hit men who have been trailing him for some time. In Eden he joins forces with his ex-lover's sister, a celebrity with a gambling problem prepared to do anything to find her family. They discover several shady characters with more than a passing interest in obtaining ownership of Eden and the secrets it holds.The book is well-written and fast paced. Adams builds suspense by dividing each chapter into short segments of each characters activities. It allowed him to drop a lot of cliff-hangers but it made it harder to get to know the individual characters. Although I enjoyed the story and the suspense I didn't feel drawn to any of the characters until half way through the book. I did feel as well, the hit men were an unnecessary over kill - there was plenty of intrigue and action without them.Overall an interesting read with a well thought out, exciting plot.
4 If you've enjoyed Will Adams' earlier novels then you are sure to enjoy this sequel.  If not, then you really should read the earlier stories or at least "The Lost Labyrinth" to get the most out of "The Eden Legacy".Madagascar is a refreshing break from the Eastern Mediterranean past, as Daniel Knox works to establish his new life with a new identity after his earlier activities have left him with a massive price on his head.  Will Adams evocatively conjures up the people and the unique island environment as he again uses his hero to bring to light interesting challenges to accepted maritime exploration history, along with the usual treasure to again portray the fight between greed and knowledge.Thankfully, there are less characters to keep straight than in his earlier works as the story builds to the trademark exciting climax, with many twists and turns along the way.  I found some annoying editorial slips detracted occasionally, but otherwise this was a thoroughly enjoyable read.
4 I love reading this kind of books! Archeology and suspense all rolled into one very good page turner! Please keep it up!
4 Robert Low's third book about the adventures of Orm and the Oathsworn brings the story to a conclusion. I found this series interesting because it deals with the Scandinavian experience in Russia. Most Viking tales deal with their activities in the West. Of course, the subject matter is always secondary to the skill of the writer in storytelling. Low does the job well. He has a good understanding of the way of life of these people and their values and attitude to life, which makes the tale absorbing, especially to those who have a historical knowledge of and interest in the period. I would recommend reading the three books in series to keep with the flow of the whole saga. They are enjoyable entertainment.
5 I've been reading the Oathsworn series for a couple of years now, and I've enjoyed this third installment the most. The tale is gripping, the details inspiring, the narrative gripping, and the conclusion satisfying (though never truly happy, not with the Oathsworn). Any fan of Viking or Norse fiction needs to read these books. I'm looking forward to Prow Beast.
3 The third book in the series where this time Orm/Bear Slayer has the crew settled but their homestead is attacked. They swear vengenace and off aviking they go again.This time back to the Russian steppes thru a series of misadventures all twisting for that horde of silver that was left behind by Orm before.Along the way they must preform a rescue or two, and lose more of their dwindling original crew.  By the time this series is over IE the 4th book I expect only Orm to be left.  Truthfully the fourth book is out, but I haven't made up my mind to read it.
4 "Would a burial mound with all the silver in the world be enough?" (p3)I enjoyed book 3 of the Oathsworn/Orm Bear-Slayer series.  There's a new under-crewed Fjord Elk, and another Russian Steppe adventure returning to Atil's hov.  Low takes a series of characters direct from the Sagas; the most interesting being Crowbone.  If you like the Viking genre this series won't disappoint.  Don't want to spoil too much.  If you haven't read the first 2 installments I suggest you start there.  Of the three books this was my least favorite, but a very interesting story nevertheless.  I'm looking forward to the 4th book, "The Prow Beast", due out March 4th 2010.
5 As a professional historian, and one who has made a personal life-long study of the Norse, commonly called Vikings, I am very critical when it comes to books on this subject.  I am very picky about what books on the subject that I keep in my personal collection.  I have discarded and re-sold more sub-standard books on this subject than you can imagine.  Only a very few reach the level of excellence that make me want to keep them in my collection.  Robert Low's Oathsworn  series is one of those few I will keep.  Mr. Low truly understands the subject matter and crafts his stories much like a Norse Skald would, while telling a tale around a hearth-fire.  I just finished reading White Raven, and enjoyed it so much that I neglected everything else until I finished it.  The book left me wanting more, and I am both delighted and saddened to learn that a fourth book in the series is due out soon.  I say "delighted", because I want more.  I am saddened because I understand that the upcoming fourth book will be the last in the series.  Good writers in this subject are rare, and Mr. Low is one of the very best.  I do hope that at some point, Mr. Low returns to the Viking Age in his future writings, if not the Oathsworn, then another aspect of this period.  With all the Hollyweird nonsense out there, of Vikings in horned helmets who are mindless, bloodthirsty barbarians, we need more literature that portrays the Norse the way they really were.  My thanks to Mr. Low for many hours of good, entertaining reading!
5 I bought the hard cover of this book on amazon uk because i couldnt find it on here. this is by far my favorite of the series and out of books period. this book is just about all about the ones Genghis left behind from his brothers to his grandchildren i especailly love the story of Batu in the book and cant wait to read about him coming up. the one thing though i did not get is that he covered every one that was around Genghis and their childern but the one person he didnt touch on what so ever was Borte who was a major influence on Genghis in the book and real life but yet there is not even a mention of her name and this kind of had me baffled to see this. but besides that it was a great book the two main characters that stood out to me is Batu and Tsoubadai in this book thats all ill say i loved the ending in this book and you can see another example of the death of one man change the whole world. this is my favorite book and if you ask me its definitly a must read and the great thing is there are atleast two more books on the way after this one so i cant wait!
5 As with the previous three titles in this series, I found this latest instalment of the "Khan" novels a gripping and most satisfying read. Although like most historical authors Mr Iggulden has had to take quite a few liberties with a few aspects of history, nonetheless he has still managed to deliver a most convincing, detailed portrayal of the post Genghis Mongol empire,which, although reeling from the untimely loss of its great founder, still has its sights set on further conquests.However, all is not well in the Mongol camp. Ogedai,the chosen heir, is plagued with bad health and is acutely aware his days on the shaky Mongol throne are limited. Although an astute and able ruler in his own right, he is weak in body and is also haunted by the grim reality that his son and heir, Guyuk, is too young and inexperienced to fend off formidable opposition. This is chiefly in the form of Chagatai, Ogedai's older brother and Genghis's one time favourite son, whose vengeful and scheming nature has cost him his original position as heir. Although he has been made a Khan in his own right, Chagatai still lusts for the central throne and will stop at nothing to achieve his ends - even if it means wiping out the entire royal family.Ogedai can count on the stalwart support of his younger brother, Tolui and his own able sons, Mongke and Kublai, now come to manhood. He also has the support of his three aging uncles, the great generals Khasar and Kachiun and the scholarly but astute Temuge. However, the true balance of power lies with the loyalty of one man - Tsubodai, Genghis's greatest general and arguably one of the greatest military figures in history. Like his good friends Khasar and Kachiun, Tsubodai too grows old but dreams of a final great conquest to the west. He sweeps his great armies through the bitter cold of Russia into Hungary, the bloody conflict coming to a most bloody head with the charismatic Hungarian King Bela and his gallant Magyar host. The whole of Europe now lays before Tsubodai - but his loyalty is tested to the limit when politics come into the power game and on the eve of his greatest triumph, he is forced to make a pivotal decision that will have resounding consequences.There is a distinct shift throughout this book that marks the dawn of a new era. The once simplistic and isolated lives of the Mongol nation takes on new subtlety as for the first time they have a capital - Karakorum - and the true intrigue of courtly politics and power play certainly extends its grip throughout this book. Not least of these rests with Batu, the illegitimate son of Jochi, Genghis's eldest son who earlier in the series was executed on his father's orders for desertion. Burning with shame over his origins but blessed with no small ability, Batu has also inherited much of his father's bitterness. Raised from his poverty stricken home to be a prince by his sympathetic uncle, Ogedai, Batu thirsts to prove himself in life as well as in battle - but can he curb his bitter and often caustic tongue long enough to make good friends where they truly count - namely Tsubodai, whom he both reveres and yet despises? The other aspect of the new Mongol order comes in the form of two very remarkable women who are probably unique in much of Asian history - Ogedai's queen, Torogene, and the even more remarkable Sorghatani, wife of Tolui and mother of both Mongke and Kublai. When the empire starts to totter as the sickly Ogedai weakens, it is these two formidable women who establish a powerful joint rule - but can they hold things together long enough for the young Guyuk to inherit before his scheming uncle, Chagatai, marches on Karakorum?As usual, Mr Iggulden delivers an action packed extravaganza worthy of a Hollywood scriptwriter. However, the woven threads of the Mongol tapestry are by now means complete, and the discerning reader will immediately pick these up throughout the weave of the narrative. We can sense very early on the young Kublai, just coming into his maturity and waiting in the wings to take his own unique place in history. Also, although the once great Chin empire of China has been crushed, the southern Sung empire smugly believes itself safe from invasion - or is it? The loose ends of the next book certainly wait to be taken up! I say bring it on.
4 As with the rest of the series, you can barely put the book down. Toni makes the story alive and exciting
5 I'm a huge fan of Conn Iggulden, he can do no wrong in my eyes. I loved this read and highly recommend it to all readers whether or not you have read the previous books in the series.With that said you would be stupid to skip them!  :-)
5 These books are addictive.I wish there were more coming I will just have to go back to the emperor series :)
5 I love all the books in this series.  Of all the books this is probably the worst one in the series and it is still really good.
4 If you enjoyed the story of Genghis then this will not disappoint you. Mr Iggulden hits the back of the net AGAIN!
4 "It was his father's nation and creation, his father's vision of a people: horse and warrior, sword and bow together."Conn Igguldon returns to the Mongol world of Genghis Khan and his family in "Khan: Empire of Silver". "Empire" is blood-pumping, action-packed, and built upon a foundation of relate-ably human stories.Iggulden paints a wonderfully vibrant landscape with his series of Genghis Khan novels. He writes boldly descriptive battle scenes, while crafting nuanced dialogue that deftly avoids sounding stilted or forced. In "Empire", the depth of his characters rise well above typical mass market fiction. It's not an easy task to build fully fleshed individuals out of so many characters, and within a story with such an action-heavy motif."Empire of Silver" picks up several years after the death of the nation-builder Genghis Khan. Khan's son Ogedei is has been named his successor, but not to the liking of many, including his brother Chagatai. This creates some early palace intrigue and action, before the story shifts sites to a pair of bloody and intense battlefronts. In the south the Mongols continue their expansion into "Chin" territory, and in the west, the "Golden Horde" swarms over the Russian steppe, and then into Europe.The battle scenes are epic. In Iggulden's hands, the bitter cold of the Asian plains blows right off the page; the acrid smell of gun powder is chokingly strong; thousands of arrows falling from the sky are chest-thumpingly realistic. The battles shift from one point of view to another...first to a Mongolian campaign general calculating, watching, planning; then to a Mongolian field general emptying a quiver of arrows into enemy warriors; then to a European soldier, pushed forward by the sheer force of bodies behind him, fighting desperately for his home while battling the overwhelming fear that precedes the Mongols.Iggulden spins a terrific tale. The plots and subplots are clear and read as fast as a Mongolian warrior riding across the Asian steppe. Genghis' two brothers, Khasar and Kachiun, as well as his uber-General Tsubodai, continue to play prominent roles in this book. But they shift from the stolid workhorses of the Khan's world, into aging and reflective leaders. While Ogedai rules from afar, a new generation of Genghis' progeny steps into the generational void on the western battlefront. Batu, Baidur and Mongke shine the brightest among Genghis' grandchildren, but a young Kublai makes an appearance setting up the next two books in Iggulden's ongoing series.A great historical fiction combines terrific storytelling with historical realism. Iggulden's writing is smooth and his descriptive powers robust. His historical approach is solid and detailed despite his free use of timeframes and certain events (which he freely admits in his historical end notes). While following the path that world history has laid out, Iggulden also pulls readers into the day-to-day existence of the Mongol elite and military. It's a world of felt tents called gers, quilt deels, and in extreme times, drinking the blood of ones' own horse.Iggulden's world is so bold and lively that I found myself perusing the fiction categories online to read more about Genghis and the Mongols - this is a sure sign that he's done a superb job. The book is strong as a stand-alone, however the background of his previous novels is helpful and the ending is clearly structured to set up the next in the series - something I'll look forward to with great anticipation.I received "Khan: Empire of Silver" as part of the LibraryThing Early Reviewers program.
5 In 1229, Genghis Khan is dead, and his son Ogedai has been named his successor as the Great Khan.  Ogedai is Genghis's third son.  The night before Ogedai is due to be confirmed as Genghis's successor, troops loyal to his elder brother Chagatai storm Ogedai's palace at Karakorum and attempt to murder him.  This attempt fails and once Ogedai is confirmed, he sends his brother to conquer the south.  Tsubodai, Genghis Khan's great general, is sent west: through Russia and into Europe.  Ogedai himself moves east for further conquest in China.The continued expansion of the empire founded by Genghis results in some epic battle scenes, which Mr Iggulden brings to life, as well as some fascinating description of strategy.  If the Mongol armies had not been withdrawn from Europe after Ogedai's death, no army in Europe would have been able to stop them.  In the context of the story (and of the history), the decision to withdraw makes perfect sense - but it didn't stop me wondering about the consequences.The history is fascinating, and Mr Iggulden uses it as the basis for a terrific novel.  Genghis's brothers Khasar and Kachiun still have a role, but they are aging.  A new generation - of Genghis's grandchildren - is making a mark.  Batu, Baidur and Mongke seem the most promising.Mr Iggulden's historical note at the end of the novel is helpful, and reminded me of how much story there is still left to tell.  Initially, it took me longer to become engrossed in this novel: none of the characters had the same appeal for me as Genghis.  But I soon became swept up in the events, and found myself wanting to know more about the Mongol exploits in Europe.  And the descriptions of battlefields and strategy had me completely engrossed.This is the fourth novel in the Conqueror series, continuing the saga of the Khan dynasty.  I'm looking forward to the next book in this series.`A wolf cannot have more than one head, general, or it tears itself apart.'Jennifer Cameron-Smith
5 Couldnt put whole series down. Love the fact that at the end he tells you the facts but in the book these are brought alive.
3 The 4th novel in the Conqueror series is not as captivating as the previous 3, but still an "ok" read. I found this story seemed to "drag" at times and lacked the intensity of the previous novels.
5 Empire of Silver is part of the Ghenghis Khan series and focuses on his children. I have read the first 3 and this is another blockbuster from Conn Igulden.Almost near finishing this one, I cant wait for the next title from Conn. THis is also the book I used to break my new Kindle.
4 If I had read this book as a standalone, without its three predecessors, I think that I may have awarded it five stars. It really is a wonderful work of historical fiction. However, it is just not up to the standard of the other three in this series.There is quite a lot of politics in this one, and the rivalries between the secions of the family continue. There is a fair share of savage brutality, and some of it is shocking, but you expect that by now, don't you?Ogedai is the new Khan, but only just. There is an unsuccessful attempt on his life on the eve of the oath-taking which will confirm his supreme position in the Mongol nation. Some skilful manipulation resolves the splits and rivalries between the most powerful, and makes all of the protagonists relatively happy.The Khan continues the expansion of the empire, and the building of cities. This may not be the way that Ghengis would have operated, but it works. Sadly, Ogedai is ill. The radical solution is beyond anything that you can imagine, but Iggulden makes it totally believable.The torrid pace of all of the books in the Conqueror series continues, but I just felt that this was one book too far. Don't let me put you off reading it though. It is still a superb read, and I commend it to you.
5 Good.
5 I thought Conn Iggulden was done with this series in the previous book, which ended with the death of Genghis Khan, but this book takes up where the last left off - with the brothers, sons and grandsons of Genghis Khan rivalling for supremacy in the nation Genghis created.This book, like all the others, is rich in historical detail, and the author has an incredible gift for transporting the reader into the period, capturing the mood and feel perfectly. Never is the action held up for unecessary detail, and yet the writing is so well done that I really felt like I was watching the events unfold.I know too little about this historical period to comment on the accuracy of the descriptions and detail given, but I know from the Emperor series that the author spends a good deal of time time on careful research for his novels, so I am guessing it is a faithful one. Then again, I was aware that he occasionally played with the history a little in the Emperor series to make a better story, so I wouldn't trust this book for a history dissertation (although maybe that is unfair of me - a better student of the period may like to comment). Regardless of that though, this is a cracking good story. The adventure comes fast and furious, and the battle scenes flow so well, I have no idea how he manages it!Any initial slowness of the story (and there is not much) is down to the fact that this is a historical narrative. Conn Iggulden could have perhaps created an even more delicious initial tension - but he is constrained by the need to tell the story as it actually happened (more or less), so he can't go assasinating characters who never died and such like.Ultimately though this is a book that the author did not need to write. He could have stopped writing with the death of Genghis Khan and no-one would have felt the series incomplete. Nevertheless I, for one, am very glad he did carry on writing. Another first class historical adventure by a master of the art of storytelling.
5 he has done it again. really didn't want to put this down a lot of research has gone into this latest book
5 I've been really enjoying the Conqueror series. This book is a very good read, complete with historical facts woven into a great story. The battle scenes are very well described and the reader is kept continually enthralled and amazed about these amazing warriors. I thoroughly recommend this book, but read the other books first.
5 Conn Iggulden is awesome.  I hope he lives forever and keeps writing the whole time.  His topics are awesome and so are his descriptions.
3 I expected a little more from this book....it sounds promising storyline about a hardworking girl meeting a fab actor - the interview which could set up her career, and then it all going a little awry.  But I think I have read this story before by other authors, so it seemed a little tired and expected.  The twist of the story with the actor was easy for me to see, and I think I would have preferred the story without the twist!  It would have made better reading, possibly more interesting to see how the character resolved the dilemma of 2 men.  Instead, the ending was the easy way out.Will try another book by this author and see if its got a bit more to offer.
4 Like the other books in the series this is entertaining, had good character development and keeps you addicted. I love that the characters continue to develop but the story line changes with each location change. I'll continue reading the series!
5 This was my second favorite book in the series after, &#34;I Heart New York.&#34; This one was playful and a really good light read. I finished it in 2 days.
5 This book is terrific!  I love the fact that what happens is a little unrealistic!  People gave this negative reviews because they say that the story is unrealistic.  The point of a good book is to escape real life and go into a fantasy world.  I loved the first book in the series (I heart New York) and this one is great.  I can't wait to read the other books in the series!
5 I have read every book in Lindsey Kelk's "I Heart" series, and like each one of them. She is a solid writer who provides entertaining tales with each book. With some authors who write a series-style of books, you sometimes see either predictability or a successive lack of quality per book, but not  so with Lindsey Kelk. I can hardly wait for I Heart Las Vegas to become available. Highly recommended.
4 This book was so much fun. Kelk really knows how to put some hysterical drama in her plots. I am looking forward to the rest of the series.
4 I HEART HOLLYWOOD, by Lindsey Kelk, is the continuation of Angela's new life in New York City as a magazine blogger. With her new rocker boyfriend, Alex, and BFF Jenny Lopez at her side, anything is possible for this English girl. Her dreams seem to come true when she is asked to interview the hottest celeb in Hollywood. Complications arise (as always it seems to around Angela) and hilarity ensues in this sequel to I Heart New York.Angela Clark stole my heart again! Her ridiculous antics and utter clumsiness kept me cracking up the whole time. She is definitely a great chick-lit character and I could really see a girl like her getting along in the real world. I loved the continuation of the relationship with Alex. These two encountered big bumps in their relationship and I was eager to see how it turned out. As much as I loved Jenny in the last book, I found myself getting annoyed with her. When she got to LA and met up with an old friend she kinda turned into a royal brat. Not very good friend material in my opinion.I absolutely fell in love with James Jacob. James and Angela shared their home country and friendly banter that turned into a bit of flirtation. HOT flirtation I might add. I was torn between liking Alex or James and who was a better match for Angela when Kelk swooped in and thwaked me in the head with an insane revelation that turned the whole book upside down. I did not see it coming but it amped up the plot intensely and I loved it.Fans of I Heart New York will love this book and I am excited to read the next one, I Heart Paris.
2 Angela Clark has barely been settled in New York for 6 months when her editor at The Look magazine tells her that she's being given a special assignment: she's off to La-La land to interview an actor hotter than Brad Pitt - James Jacobs. Angela duly takes up the challenge and sets off to LA with best friend Jenny, however when she gets there she finds that LA isn't as glamorous as she thought it would be and the only sane person there is James. Matters are made worse when Angela and James are snapped in an uncompromising position and Angela is suddenly thrust into the spotlight. Can Angela make her boyfriend believe there's truly nothing going on between herself and James?I Heart Hollywood picks up two months after I Heart New York and starts, much like the first book, at a wedding. A chapter or two later and Angela is heading off to LA. The start to the book was hardly pacey and I thought I'd end up getting bored 60 pages in like it's predecessor. In a carbon copy of I Heart New York, Angela seems to have everything fall into her lap when she gets to LA, particularly when it comes to James Jacobs. They get along straight away which is believable enough, but the book then goes into "OMG so unbelievable" territory by making it seem as if James loves Angela (after she throws up and passes out on him, no less) and they end up being featured on gossip websites - Perez Hilton gets a mention! - which portray them as a new couple. Quelle surprise, Angela's boyfriend sees the snaps and all of a sudden, Angela's in a bit of a pickle. Again. Angela protests her innocence, but doesn't deny she wasn't thinking about it...The worst thing about both books is the unbelievability factor. I love Becky Bloomwood's Shopaholic adventures because it manages to stay a bit true to real life but the I Heart books make it so difficult for me to imagine because it's as if they're happening in an alternate universe. There's a recession going on but Angela has no problem spending thousands of dollars on clothes... The book has no realism whatsoever. Also, there's a huge twist involving James Jacobs and his personality change after we learn his secret is rather astounding. I was truly gobsmacked at how quickly he changed, it was so unbelievable I could have laughed. Kelk's writing has improved a little bit, though, so I give her credit for that. Angela is no longer revered as a hero, thank God, which is another plus. Don't get me wrong I Heart Hollywood IS better than I Heart New York and I found myself enjoying it much more but if I don't like the principle character (she still calls men boys, by the way) there isn't too much hope for me to really love the book and get lost in it. Funny thing is, I will undoubtedly end up reading I Heart Paris... don't ask...
3 I Heart Hollywood is the second book in the I Heart series by Lindsey Kelk. Angela Clark is back and she's still living in the United States, writing for a hip magazine, and debating whether to move in with her sexy new boyfriend. Her latest work assignment is interviewing fellow Brit and actor James Jacobs...in Hollywood. All is fun and glamorous until paparazzi snaps compromising photos of Angela and James Jacobs. The gossip spreads and threatens her job, reputation and relationship.I really liked Angela's independent attitude and guts in the first book, I Heart New York. But she loses this burst of "I Am Woman" in this book. She seems helpless and clueless. I enjoyed reading more about her best friend Jenny, who is healing from heartbreak and discovering a potential new career. Hopefully Angela just had a temporary mental setback and will be back to normal. As Jenny says, "You're my best friend. You do stupid stuff. I sort it out. This is our thing, it's the thing that we do."Lindsey Kelk's pop culture and smooth writing style make for easy, light reading. I love when a book takes me to different places in the world like New York, London, Hollywood, Vegas, and Paris. It's fun to read Angela's perception of the different cities. It's safe to say I am sticking with this series and can't wait to read the next two.Literary Marie of Precision Reviews
4 I Heart HollywoodThe story elaborated on the adventure of Angela in the Hollywood.After Angela has settled-in comfortably in New York city, with a job(that does not require her to report to work on a 8 to 5 basis), a cool band boyfriend who totally adores her, and a buddy who will pick her up whenever she falls, a chance of a million fell on her lap when a Hollywood star invited her to "interview" him in the stars concentrated city of Hollywood.Work is never without play when her new best friend, Jenny, decided to join her in her adventure. Typical of Angela, she got herself into countless out of this world scenarios / adventures.Truly a good book to laugh your heads off, shed some tears, and relax over a sunny relaxing weekend by the beach. :D
5 I don't know how Angela C. manages to get into so much trouble but I do love being a part of it!!! This book was acutally as good if not better than I heart NY. I love the fact I feel like I'm right there next to her as she she takes on Hollywood. This is by far a great read be sure to pick it up.
4 2013:I Heart Paris is the third book in Lindsey Kelk's I Heart series. The series includes:#1-I Heart New York#2-I Heart Hollywood#3-I Heart Paris#4-I Heart Vegas#5-I Heart London#6-I Heart ChristmasI read books one and two in 2012 and loved them! I lost interest in the third book, I Heart Paris. Thinking it was just poor timing, I picked it back up a year later and finished it. Out of the three that I have read, I Heart Paris is my least favorite but it's not bad. I gave it 3.5 stars, rounding up to 4.The heroine in the I Heart series is Angela Clark, a British broken-hearted girl who runs away from her drama in London to America. Her adventures are so funny, classic chick-lit humor but unfortunately, I Heart Paris didn't offer much of that humor until the end. I think that's why I lost interest. I'm glad I finished it though because the ending was good, with a few laugh out loud moments. I already own the fourth book (prematurely buying the series after loving the first two) so I will likely continue the series.My favorite quote:It was only just after ten but people were already lining up for the show. For a moment, I forgot how pissed off I was with Alex and just felt incredibly proud. I couldn't imagine how it must feel to see people queuing to see you do something you loved. No one was ever likely to stand in line to watch me inhale a tub of Phish Food and settle in for a three-hour America's Next Top Model marathon. I made a mental note actually to get around to doing something relevant with my life. Or at least have a think about it."(less)2012:I adored the first two books in the I Heart series but I lost interest in this one quick. Her trust issues are getting old and in my opinion there wasn't enough other plot to make up for it. I was so excited about this series but I don't think I'll continue.
3 I Heart Paris is the third book in the I Heart series by Lindsey Kelk. Angela is in the city of love: Paris. It is supposed to be a romantic working trip with boyfriend Alex. He was playing in a festival. She was to write an article for fashion magazine Belle. But the trip isn't turning out right. First, her luggage is blown up by airport officials. Her best friend Jenny is not speaking to her. Alex's ex-girlfriend is trying to win him back. And someone is sabotaging her career putting the visa in jeopardy.Like the other two previous books in this series, Angela isn't a good communicator. She overreacts to situations and always thinks the worst. In this book, it started to get annoying. The refreshing parts were reading about Paris scenery and the sub-characters like Jenny, Alex and Louisa. It was an okay read and I will continue the series. I'm actually excited that I Heart Vegas will be released in December.Literary Marie of Precision Reviews
3 If you have followed Lindsey Kelk's heroine, Angela Clark, from her big break up in London to her new, glamorous, blog-writing life in New York, and then onto her crazy adventures in Hollywood, "I Heart Paris" will probably leave you quite frustrated.Angela is a very likeable character, and there is so much about Kelk's "I Heart" series to love, however this third instalment is very much its predecessors.  Angela fails to talk to Alex about basic, adult things; Angela stresses out over her job and her abilities to hold onto said job (as a side note, I have never really found Angela's blog all that interesting, so I don't see what the fuss is about...); Angela drinks too much and gets herself into stupid, thoughtless situations.Angela overreacts a lot, and not simply to make this book more entertaining - a simple lunch meeting with her boss and the magazine Big Wig just feels too confusing and tense and back-and-forth than it really needs to be. Most of the drama in this book is over the top and unnecessary. I wanted to slap Angela and tell her to get her act together, and I hadn't even read the previous books at the time!However, true to the other books in the series, Kelk describes Angela's Paris so well that you really feel like you're walking with her. It's littered with the same designer name-drops from the previous books that make you salivate, and it is still very, very addictive.It's definitely worth reading I Heart New York and I Heart Hollywood to see what Angela has been through to get to Paris, but I found it simple enough to understand on its own.  This book isn't the greatest, but for a light chick-lit read with some amazing travel writing, it's definitely worth checking out.
4 I couldn't resist buying this book when I saw it in my local supermarket for the bargain price of 1! I had already read I Heart Vegas by the same author and I didn't realise that this was a series so I'm afraid I haven't read them in order.  The big question is would it affect my enjoyment?I guess it affected my reading pleasure a bit because I didn't really feel connected to the characters as I probably would have done if I had read the first books beforehand.  However, it didn't affect the storyline itself because everything was explained clearly.  I think I would recommend reading the series in order though and I really want to read those books now even though my to read list is already far too long!The beginning was all about Angela before she went to Paris with her boyfriend Alex, it took a while to fully capture my interest but once it did I couldn't stop turning the pages - it definitely got better as the story progressed.  My feelings towards Alex changed regularly throughout the book, alternating between very negative thoughts and `aww isn't he sweet' thoughts.  Angela was such a funny character, she was awkward, clumsy and very unlucky but this meant she was also very entertaining!  I particularly enjoyed her honest blog posts and her struggles to get where she needed to go.There were so many laugh out loud moments throughout the book, some of my favourites were:  an amusing flight to Paris which also included `suitcase gate', a dangerous nighttime trip to the loo, talkative teenagers on a train, a pickled onion problem and a hugely entertaining fight scene near the end.The writing was clear and gave me a real sense of actually being in Paris, I definitely shared Angela's enthusiasm for the city even as she wandered from one disaster to the next (I think the beauty of Paris did ease some of her frustrations though).This was an enjoyable read full of all things girly - bags, shoes, boys and travel, what more could a girl want?
5 I Heart Paris, the follow-up novel from Lindsey Kelk's I Heart Hollywood, picks up where heroine Angela Clark left off. Back in New York and still with boyfriend Alex, Angela is busy working on her blog and trying to decide if she should move in with Alex. Alex keeps asking Angela, but Angela is hesitant because of a messy breakup in her past. When Alex suddenly needs to fly to Paris to perform in a live concert with his band, he asks Angela to go with her. At the same time, Angela is offered a terrific writing opportunity on Paris fashion, and happily heads across the Pond. As usual with Angela, nothing seems to go her way once she lands. Alex's crazy ex-girlfriend seems to keep popping up wherever Alex is, her writing assignment is not going as smoothly as she hoped, and someone from her work may be trying to sabotage her. Between trying to keep her relationship alive and maintain a professional career, Angela's trip to Paris is anything but uneventful!I Heart Paris is definitely going on my Favorites list. The writing was humorous, the characters were extremely likeable, and I loved the air of mystery surrounding the possible work sabotage. It was also refreshing to read a story where the boyfriend is actually a good guy! I loved Alex's character and how much he loved Angela despite her increasingly clumsy ways and the miscommunication involving the ex-girlfriend. The visions of Paris made me feel like I was in the city, and the fashion will please chick lit fans immensely. I've realized that I've said I've loved parts of this book about three times now, so I definitely need to give it a 5 star rating. This is the third in Lindsey Kelk's `I Heart' series: I Heart New York, I Heart Hollywood and I Heart Paris, and I sure hope we get a fourth!
2 I bought this in the Charles De Gaulle airport in Paris of all places. This was the first and only I Heart book that I will be reading. I had so many problems with this book. Most importantly,  I had a hard time believing that the main character was a grown woman. She had the emotional intelligence and self esteem of the average twelve year old. I found Angela Clark to be really annoying and kind of sad. Perhaps suffering from an undiagnosed mental illness. Considering the physical fights, her insecurity, irresponsibility, and immaturity, this made for a frustrating read. The plot seemed really drawn out. Her relationship did not seem realistic at all.  How can you move in with a guy when you can't even talk to him about important matters in your relationship? I didn't find there to be a lot of Paris in this book either. I've been to Paris and I've read books that capture the city and this book does not. I'm so glad I didn't run into the "hipster" bars in the guide in the back of the book. What is with all the hipster worship? There was a lot of filler in the book too. For example, having to go pee is referenced three times. What? I did like the character Virginie though. She was probably the most three dimensional and interesting character in the book. Readable but not necessarily enjoyable if you are stuck on an airplane for 8 hours.
2 I am a huge fan of chick lit and had already read the first book in this series without finding all that entertaining.  However, when I got the opportunity of reading I Heart Paris I thought I would definitely give it another go - especially since I had heard really good things about this one.Unfortunately, just like the first book in the series, I Heart Paris just did not keep up my interest enough for me to consider this one a winner and rate anything over a 2 stars.For me, chick lit is supposed to be "cute" but also very entertaining and frankly, the author writes characters and scenarios that just do not keep me engaged in the least.  The plotline is too slow and the characters are unexceptional in most cases.While I realize that part of the fun of reading this series is the fact that the locale keeps changing - and come on - Paris, New York and Hollywood are definitely exciting places - I just get so bored by the storyline that it seems as though the stories could have been anywhere in the world and I still would not care.I really did want to enjoy this one - and it does seem as though many other readers like this author - just not me.
2 The King's Daughter tells the story of James I's oldest daughter Elizabeth. While Elizabeth knows that she's spent her entire life preparing for the marriage market, she dreads the day when she'll be married off to the wealthiest and most beneficial suitor. Elizabeth is constantly paraded in front of marriage brokers and threatened to be shipped off to another country. She longs for freedom, but is forced to battle the brutal politics of court while finding a path in life that makes her happy.Now, I'll admit that I was happy to have something a little different here. Instead of exploring the constantly-discussed world of Tudor England, author Christie Dickason instead uses the daughter of James I of the Stuarts, who was Elizabeth Tudor's Scottish successor.But, The King's Daughter is just as confusing and pointless as it sounds. From the moment I started the book up until the very end, I felt like I was fighting a constant uphill battle with myself. Frankly, I just didn't want to keep reading. The writing was fairly amateur, the setting was incredibly blurry, the dialog felt a little out-of-period and I constantly felt like the plot had no real goal.I really hate to be so harsh here. I mean -I really wanted to like this book. Heck, I even ordered it all the way from England to give it a whirl, but it just didn't work for me. In fact, I feel like I finished the book just to justify the fact that I spent money on it.Yeah....hard to believe, but give this one a miss.
4 I truly enjoyed reading "The King's Daughter."  While not as fascinating as the Tudor era, the Stuart period remains fresh subject matter since it has not been so thoroughly explored (or exploited).  I agree with previous reviewers that the character development felt off at times.  At the novel's end, the moments of almost tenderness James I showed Elizabeth were difficult to reconcile with his previous behavior.  Also, Prince Henry seemed both pitiable and slightly creepy at times.  Overall, I would recommend this novel.
4 The King's Daughter by Christie Dickason brings alive the life at court with all the treachery and betrayal that swirls through it. The King's Daughter is about the life of Elizabeth Stuart, daughter of King James I of England and VI of Scotland, told through her own eyes.From a very young age Elizabeth is aware of her place in the family as third in line to the throne. She would be matched in a marriage that would further benefit her father's position. Elizabeth is kept very sheltered and away from court. Her father doesn't want her to know anything that is going on there. Her mother has nothing to do with her. Her mother at one time tells her that there is no point in getting to know a daughter as they are soon married off and the mother's heart is only broken if they are close. The only thing that Elizabeth truly treasures is the special relationship she shares with her older brother Henry, Prince of Wales.King James is quite erratic and unstable at times; given to flying into rages. His biggest fear being that his children are trying to take over the throne. This is his main reason for keeping Elizabeth so secluded and for keeping Henry under his thumb as well. Elizabeth though is pretty gutsy and does at times stand up to her father especially when he threatens to marry her off to someone she can't even stand the thought of being married to. She also, as she gets older, decides to send out spies in order to learn more about what is going on around her especially those matters to do with her. She learns many things; things about her father as well; things that finally give her more control over her own life and future.The biggest fear Elizabeth had was that she would be married off to some old and mean man. There were many times she was put on display to would be suitors. There were a few that she outright refused to marry; standing up to her father's rage. In this matter her brother Henry came to her rescue. He tried hard to find her a man that would make a good match for her; someone that would make her happy and succeeded. Without him, who knows who her father would have sent her off with.I liked Elizabeth and enjoyed this novel being told from her viewpoint. Dickason weaves fact with fiction in such a way that kept me turning the pages in this book to see what Elizabeth would face next. Henry as well was a character I liked. He seemed a kind and caring prince regardless of his father. King James is painted in a bad light in this novel- he is unstable and mean; most often quite drunk.As with most historicals I am always appalled by how little say that women had and very horrified at the young age they were married off at; most often to men much too old for them. They were used as pawns; nothing more. That a mother turned away from her children because it hurt too much to love them, only to lose them, breaks my heart and yet this is how things were. Elizabeth spent her days not knowing what would happen to her at any given moment. I was glad that she found love and a way to move forward in her life. If you're a lover of anything historical, then Christie Dickason's The King's Daughter is definitely a book you'll want to read!
4 I enjoy historical novels and this is the first time I have read one about the daughter of James Stuart.  The writer is very good and keeps you reading a very long book.
4 In THE KING'S DAUGHTER, Christie Dickason takes readers into the court of James I through the eyes of his daughter, Elizabeth Stuart.  James I seeks to use his children's marriage as a means to create political alliances to maintain peace in a Europe torn between Catholic and Protestant positions.  Within the court, cousins Robert Cecil and Francis Bacon vie against one another.  As the king's daughter, Bacon's desire to ingratiate himself into the king's favor puts Elizabeth in a precarious position.  More deeply, within her heart, she is a woman who strives for some happiness and freedom in a world where her choices are limited by others.  When she meets her suitor Frederick, the Elector Palatine, Elizabeth feels hope for future happiness but her parents withdraw their support.  Elizabeth enlists the aid of Tallie, a slave girl, to help her find out more about the plans for her marriage.  Together, the two form a kind of friendship as each seeks more control and freedom over their individual lives.THE KING'S DAUGHTER, Christie Dickinson joins historical detail with fictional imagination to explore the life of Elizabeth.  While bringing the history alive through the characters who surround Elizabeth, THE KING'S DAUGHTER also makes history personal through the mostly first person narrative told by Elizabeth herself.  The fictional creation of the slave girl Tallie brings out inner longings and sensibilities akin to modern readers.  Thematic parallels between the lives of the two women reinforce the lack of choices in women's lives and their longing for self-determination.  Their friendship brings out the character of Elizabeth, especially as she longs for honesty in conversation, as well as the danger and drama of court life.  Some of the scenes while perhaps lacking plausibility nevertheless serve to create a glimpse at the lives of women's coming of age and sexual knowledge in an age quite different than our own.  Christie Dickason does not shy away from the topic of sexuality in this historical novel.  Some of the dialogue is less delicate than a typical historical novel.  At first slightly jolting, the directness is at times refreshing.  The villainous portrait of Francis Bacon chills, especially if one's familiarity with his historical personage comes chiefly from philosophy.  THE KING'S DAUGHTER brings together history, romance, and suspenseful action in a flowing prose style that brings a reader directly into the time period.  Kudos to Christie Dickason for opening a period of history to historical fiction lovers that is less thoroughly explored as some of currently popular releases.  I would recommend THE KING'S DAUGHTER to readers who are historical fiction fans and those wanting to explore the genre.  The combination of historical detail and modern themes makes THE KING'S DAUGHTER easily accessible to readers who crave history with portraits of women with whom one can more easily identify.Courtesy of Book Illuminations
3 I'm reading historical fiction less and less lately, but when I found out about this one, I thought I'd give it a try, since I've enjoyed three of Christie Dickason's other novels. In this one, she remains in the seventeenth century, focusing on the life of Elizabeth, the daughter of James I. She and her brother were widely popular, so much so that their father tried to keep them away from the public as much as possible. This novel focuses on Elizabeth's early life, primarily with the arrangement of her marriage and all that that entails.Christie Dickason is a good writer, but there were some points in the novel where I found myself rolling my eyes. Elizabeth is a royal daughter, but in this book the author has her dressing in men's clothing and running off to brothels in Southwark. And nobody would have noticed this? Elizabeth's friendship with Tallie is interesting, but Elizabeth's attitude towards the musician is a little too PC to be believable. In fact, in many places, Elizabeth has a modern-day sensibility, especially when it comes to her impending marriage--which she would have been brought up to expect. I never truly "bought" her as a living, breathing seventeenth-century person. I just didn't care for her in the end.I love the historical details that the author uses throughout, since she really knows the period she's writing about. However, there's way too much detail on clothing. Also, James I comes across as a drunken buffoon, which turns him into a one-dimensional character at times. There's a lot of name-dropping in this novel, but none of it really added to the plot. For example, the author gives her reader a full biography of Arbella Stuart, but her story adds nothing to the main plot. The novel moves at a very swift pace, but there were other chapters that were written from the point of view of another major character, which distracted from the overall flow of the book.
4 This novel is a quick read and the plot speeds right along. The beginning of the novel feels somewhat frivolous, but by the time you reach the middle of the book it gains some weight. I think this is on purpose to show how Elizabeth grows up from an innocent child to a woman. There was also a cute love story between Elizabeth and Frederick that you were rooting for by the end of the book.This was an interesting story and one whose characters I have not encountered elsewhere. We get up close and personal with the court of James I - his wife Anne of Denmark and children, Henry, Charles, and Elizabeth. This is quite the interesting court. James I is a very paranoid king - and rightly so - but it was shocking some of the actions that he took to protect himself, even from his family. Throughout the story we find out a lot about Henry, Elizabeth, and King James, but left wanting some regarding Queen Anne. The author may have left us distant from her in order to show how she was distant to the rest of her family - however, I did want to know more about her.This wasn't a novel with a lot of depth, more of a surface story, but it was enjoyable. I would recommend this if you are looking for a fun read but not expecting to tax your mind too much. I came away from reading it with a sense of enjoyment, but not with too much else and the events of the story don't stick with you for a long time.
2 I agonized over buying this, and now I really wished I had passed it over.  This is my introduction to Dickason's work, and judging from this book I won't be returning to her.First off, which blasted novel am I reading?  First I think it's a biographical account of Elizabeth's life, then there's some conspiracy that's hinted at, drags, on, is never fully explained and I suppose it's gone for good.  (I say "suppose" because 33% of the way I'm ready to just say to heck with it and stop reading.)You see, Princess Elizabeth has just been sent a "blackamoor" serving girl, and suddenly we're thrown into the girl's POV.  I've already been ripped into other POVs with no warning (other than the italicized formatting), and I was already angry about it.  It makes the novel jerky and confusing instead of adding layers of richness to the story.I adore the Stewarts, and I applaud any author who is willing to give me a glimpse into their lives.  I think that's why I'm so darned annoyed with this book.  Instead of a rollicking good time and an intimate portrait of a young girl I've been bored to death, poked into too many heads, tried to figure out what this darned conspiracy was and if Elizabeth was a part of it or not (I'm quickly getting to the point that I don't care).Oh, and did I mention that the book has crammed in a hasty interpretation of Shakespeare's Hamlet and MacBeth?  Because this novel wasn't convoluted enough already.Finally- I am calling out Harper Collins:  SHAME ON YOU FOR THE SHODDY, COMPLETELY UN-PROFESSIONAL FORMATTING IN THE E-BOOK EDITION.  SPEND SOME MONEY ON A COPY EDITOR.  Any idiot can figure out that "fromhis," "tomy," "withoutwarning," "manyprayers," "daintyand," "ofthe,' "atthe," "andbegan," "thetop" are gross formatting errors.If I were Dickason and you'd formatted my work so piss poorly I'd take you to court for damages.  I'd be embarassed to be professionally associated with you, Harper Collins.
5 Recently, I've become hooked on HF novels such as this one. There's just something about opening a novel, sitting back, and being instantly transported back to the 17th century and thrust in to the Shakespearian Era. Feeling as if you are among the Kings and Queens, wearing the fancy gowns and jewels, during a time when you, if  you were a child of a King, were put on the marriage market, really left me in awe. I have had books transport me into history before, but Christie Dickason is outstanding and her work really does magic on my soul.Reading Elizabeth's story, as she's forced to join with one suitor as a pawn given by her father only to find an unexpected happiness with that suitor thus resulting in the disapproval of her parents, was out of this world. I felt every question, every thought, every emotion that Elizabeth felt. It was absolutely breathtaking as my heart really went out to her. Elizabeth would go to most any length  to find her happiness away from her father, a jealous man who would do anything to keep peace-even pawning off his own children.I loved everything about this novel. The beautiful cover, the fantastic plot, the perfectly complex characters. Christie Dickason's attention to the rich 17th century detail was absolutely amazing and catching.This is definitely a 5 star (and then some!) novel that should be read by EVERY HF lover. Rich in detail, captivating characters, and beautiful writing, Christie Dickason's work will forever be on my book shelves to read again and again, and it should be on yours,too!*This review is based on a complimentary copy which was provided for an honest review*
5 One of the best novels I have ever read. Spelling perfect. The plot is so well developed and keeps you on your toes until the last page in this story of love,intrigue and cruelty.
5 Is there anything like discovering a new author to follow? That is what this book did for me, it made me a fan of Christie Dickason.I read a lot of historical fiction and, when told from a princess's point of view, it normally follows the same formula. A little time spent during her childhood, marriage to a foreign leader, and then having children and suffering valiantly through whatever trouble her husband can come up with. This book, told from the perspective of Princess Elizabeth, daughter of King James I, does not follow that pattern. It uses Elizabeth's marriage as the resolution to the story and the build up to that marriage as the substance. This is the most accurate portrayal of how a princess, who has no say in her own future, might feel that I have ever read. James I uses his daughter as a political bargaining chip and she is constantly hearing rumors and gossip about who her current suitors are. She lives in a state of uncertainty as her father continually shifts his support from one suitor to another. I thought this to be an extremely realistic portrayal of a princess's fear as her life is being bartered.This book also had a wealth of period detail. The war between Catholicism and Protestantism that Henry VIII assisted in bringing to England is still in full swing. James I is the son of Mary, Queen of Scots and he fears someone using his children against him as he was used against his mother. Robert Cecil, adviser to Queen Elizabeth and now James, is slowly falling out of favor while Francis Bacon is a rising star. And the Americas are becoming an English interest.The one thing I think should be clarified is that this book is marketed as equally being about a black slave girl named Tallie. While Tallie is a character, this book does not focus on her story, just on how she is a part of Elizabeth's story.This novel portrayed the time it was set in with great detail and still managed to portray a young English princess's fears and uncertainties in equal detail. I loved it.
4 With all the Tudormania around in the historical fiction universe, I was delighted to discover that Christie Dickason has not only continued to focus her historical novels on the Stuart era (the 1600s) but also to write about a little-known but fascinating princess. Even better? This turned out to be as fascinating a yarn as was The Other Boleyn Girl, shedding new light on the characters and the era and providing such an entertaining story that I stayed up past 2 a.m. in order to finish it.The king referred to in the title is James VI of England and James I of Scotland, son of Mary, Queen of Scots, who succeeded Elizabeth I on the English throne upon her death and the daughter is his eldest and only surviving daughter, Elizabeth. Not surprisingly, James has a rather ambivalent attitude to family relationships: his mother (from whom he was separated as an infant) had been accused of blowing his father, Lord Darnley, to kingdom come while he himself tacitly accepted the horrible quid pro quo -- if he didn't fight to avenge his mother's execution by Elizabeth, he would become her heir. When the book opens, James has been on the English throne for only a few years, and is widely jeered at for his weak physique, odd habits (tics, paranoia, drooling, etc.) and his adoration of handsome young men. He has become suspicious of his two eldest children, Henry, prince of Wales, and Elizabeth, who a group of plotters try to install on the throne. (The Guy Fawkes gunpowder plot.) Dickason opens her story at this point, when Elizabeth realizes that to survive her father's paranoia, she is going to have to outwit him. She determines not to be his pawn; the rest of the story, which ends when she finally marries and leaves England and her father behind, revolves around her efforts to find ways to survive and build a future for herself within a world of hatred, duplicity and suspicion.For a first-person book told from the point of view of a pre-teen girl and, later, a young teenager, this is a remarkable achievement. I never felt as if the book was intended for a younger audience (as I did with Michelle Moran's otherwise goodCleopatra's Daughter: A Novel, which is being cross-marketed as a YA title, a book with which this has many similarities); nor did I feel that the thoughts, perceptions and emotions were too sophisticated for a girl of Elizabeth's age. It did help that Elizabeth's first person story of her early encounter with treasonous rebels and later experiences at James's court were interspersed with short first-person segments from other characters in the book; these added to and explained what Elizabeth was witnessing, without causing the story's pace to flag.) The fictional character of Thalia Bristo gives an extra bit of interest to the story; Elizabeth's mother, who wishes nothing to do with her in person, nonetheless presents her with the young African slave. "Tallie" becomes the princess's ally in understanding her environment and while some of their adventures and exploits have an air of implausibility (one reason I didn't feel able to give the book a fifth star), the relationship between the two young women was convincing and helped make Elizabeth more vivid. There are also a host of secondary characters, just as fascinating and intriguing, from William Cecil's son, Robert, now Lord Burghley and earl of Salisbury, to his cousin, Francis Bacon, who exerts a malign influence over Elizabeth and her beloved brother. There are even some interesting glimpses into the character of the future Charles I. (He who was beheaded...)Elizabeth Stuart has always been one of the historical figures that I have yearned to read about in fiction, and was thrilled to find this book. Now I'm hoping that Dickason decides to continue Elizabeth's story in a future book; if anything, it gets even more dramatic in the coming years. Among her many children was the mother of the future George I of England, so she is also the ancestress of all the English monarchs who have occupied the throne for the last three centuries.If this has whetted your appetite for more about the Stuarts, here are a few titles about pre-Civil War (thus pre-Charles II and all those mistresses!) Stuarts. Nigel Tranter, a well-known author focusing on Scottish HF, has several books about James VI/I, includingThe Wisest Fool: A Novel of James the Sixth (Coronet Books). One of Hilda Lewis's books (sadly, not yet reprinted), isWife To Great Buckingham; the Buckingham in question was the final 'favorite' of James I, who also dominated the young Charles I. Jean Plaidy wroteThe murder in the towerabout two characters who make an appearance in this novel, a prior favorite, Robert Carr, and Frances Howard. There is some historical fiction featuring Arbella Stuart (a cousin of the King's and a possible claimant to the throne.) Finally, for anyone interested in what happened to the "The Winter Queen", as Elizabeth was later known, there is a book about the daughters of the Stuart kings,The Stuart Princesses, featuring Elizabeth, or two novels from Margaret Irwin about her children,The Stranger Princeabout Rupert of the Rhine and THE BRIDE. THE STORY OF LOUISE AND MONTROSE, about one of Elizabeth's daughters.Highly recommended to HF afficionados, especially those interested in branching out beyond the Tudors and the Plantagenets, and who value solid research. You may have to order it from the UK, alas, but I'm glad that I did...
4 James I is king of England and the British Isles, though he is not nearly as popular with his subjects as his son Henry and daughter Elizabeth are.  Elizabeth has no idea how precarious her position is, as the king's daughter, nor how much danger her brother is in.  After discovering a treasonous plot to put Elizabeth on the throne, the king punishes his children in cruel ways.  Elizabeth's only hope at happiness is marriage, but fears her father will never consent to a union.  How is Elizabeth going to survive her situation in life?I am a huge fan of the British royal history, so I thought this book was going to be fantastic.  I have to admit, I was a little disappointed; the book is good, but not quite as wonderful as I hoped it to be.  The history is told as fiction in an accurate and fairly engaging way.  The storyline is definitely not the issue.  The plot is engaging, and multifaceted.  You have intrigue, you have mystery, you have romance.  The story itself is solid.My biggest problem was the character development.  I never really felt close to Elizabeth as a character, and it is only through her relationship with Tallie, one of her ladies in waiting, that I felt I got to know Elizabeth at all.  I found the writing to be a little stiff, which given the royal subject matter was probably appropriate, but still difficult for me to allow myself to really sink into the story.  For that reason, it took me much longer to read than it normally would to read a book of this length.Any fan of British royal fiction will enjoy this book.  If you like the books of Philippa Gregory, I believe you will enjoy the book, though it is not quite on par with Gregory's writing.I received a touring copy of the book courtesy of Crazy Book Tours.
5 I have enjoyed every recipe I have made out of this book.Being from the US every time I decide to try a new recipe it is a cooking adventure.  Finding ingredients that are not common in the US which has also allowed me to find some amazing shops in town, I have become more knowledgeable with the ingredients I am using and I guess you would say &#34;cooking terms bilingual&#34;, since there are different terms and measurements used.When I first received the book I was intimidated because it seemed an immense task to make anything but once I &#34;rolled up my sleeves&#34; I have had such a good time!  I would buy this book all over again.
5 Gordon Ramsay has done a brilliant job of bringing the very best of Britain into a cookbook. It might seem a bit odd for Americans (wild boar sausage and treacle tarts), but it's a wonderfully done book. The recipes are fantastic!
4 This cookbook is unlike any others that I have in my library. It's literally a textbook. Many of the recipes are very authentic and err on the side of historic. I have a couple other cookbooks on historical British recipes and I've found a few of the same recipes in this book. I'm sure if I went to a pub in 1800-1920 these would be the dishes I'd expect to see. It's a really good book, there are only a few recipes that I've seen in pubs lately, and I'm glad to have this book so I can recreate authentic pub food.
4 I purchased this book in the UK, but would have loved to have the US measurements instead.  My husband and I have made several nice dinners and lunches from this cookbook.  Yeah, I can see where the pub food in this book may sound a bit 'posh', but the British pubs in my neighborhood in London are trying to serve this type of pub food.  Some recipes you definitely wouldn't find in a local pub - that I will admit, but they are still delicious. Everything we've tried from this book has turned out fantastic, especially the honey lemon chicken recipe.This book is a definite keeper for us and when we return to the States, will have this on hand to try and recreate the Sunday roasts and the other pub food presented in this book.My recommendations for anyone trying out the recipes in this book are: read the instructions more than once, make sure you understand the steps, and have all your ingredients prepped and ready to go before you start.
1 I am not a GR fan, but I thought a book about pub food would be fun.  Too bad I was wrong.I can't imagine cooking any of this crap, never mind expecting someone to eat it.  But I gues GR is laughing all the way to the bank.  Seriously, I can hear him now..."I know, I'll do a book that says it's about pub food, but I'll use completely unappetizing recipes that have nothing to do with pubs instead!  Great!"
4 A nice intro to some classic English food. Some of the recipes may not be appealing to the American palate but I'm sure you'll find several things you'll want to try.
3 Maybe it's just me, but Cory's books are beginning to read like libertarian fanfiction. As with Makers, this book was didactic and segued into "let's study economics" a little too often for my liking. As always, the bad guys are demonized and the good guys get all the sympathetic ink."Heavy-handed" is the word one would use for Cory's books. I applaud the clarity of the writing--there is no way to mistake what Cory's trying to say--but if there's one thing that turns me off, it's preaching. Little Brother was the strongest of all Cory's books, and on the strength of that (and Down and Out in the Magic Kingdom) I have given all his books a chance, but honestly, the pedantism throughout Makers was a letdown, and For the Win did not score a Win with me for the same reason. Cory needs to cut down on the lecturing, stat.I think I'm done with Cory's books for life unless he pulls out something significantly different in the future. Don't get me wrong, I sympathize with the gold farmers and I deplore the exploitation that occurs, but I read For the Win hoping he would describe a solution (as he did in Little Brother). I was at least all right with the way Makers ended. With For The Win, I had the distinct feeling the ending was a cop-out. I am not impressed.
5 For the Win is a wonderful book. I don't really know what I would classify it as, it was semi dystopian, but not entirely, so I hesitate to apply that label to it.I don't really know what to say about it. It is a good book for people that know anything about economics, and also a good one for those who don't, as economics play a heavy role. It's a good book for anyone who plays MMORPGs, as those feature heavily in it as well, but that prerequsite knowledge isn't necessary.
4 For anyone who's ever played an MMO (Massive Multiplayer Online) game like World of Warcraft or Lord of the Rings Online, you know it can be a lot of fun.  What you might not know is that if you're really good at it, play it just right, and know where to advertise, you can make a lot of money from it.  There are certain quests or missions that can be repeated over and over for maximum experience points and/or gold; that gold can be turned into cash.  People who do this are known as gold farmers; it's illegal; thousands of people around the world do it for profit.In For the Win, Cory Doctorow goes into depth with this world, revealing the teenagers that love to play, but also the children in India, Malaysia and China that work nonstop grueling hours for little money.  But those who play these games, learn and know a lot about what they do.  Doctorow takes it up a notch by having these slave laborers fight back, forming unions and protective groups to fight for their rights as employees.  The result is a fascinating and fun story that kids, teenagers, or adults can enjoy.Originally written on June 9 2010 Alex C. Telander.Go to BookBanter ([...]) for over five hundred reviews and over forty exclusive author interviews, and more.
4 First, thanks are due to the author for his continued decision to release his works free on the Internet.  Traditional media would believe it counterintuitive: why would consumers pay for something free?  Counterintuitive or not, it works: it reduces the barrier to entry for a consumer.  I first got my taste for Doctorow's writing with a free download, but it's one I enjoyed enough that his books -- in traditional form -- reside on my bookshelves and have survived several culls of my collection.  Something to consider, publishers.I may give younger readers too little credit, but this book is lengthy.  That's something enjoyable to an adult, as it gives the complex stories time to develop and weave together.  But as the book is supposedly oriented towards young adults, I wonder whether the novel's length will prove a barrier to completion.The book reminds me of other polemic fiction I've read whose main theme is the portrayal of the triumph of a particular political ideal.  This plays to one of Doctorow's strengths -- his zealotry.  Doctorow believes in his ideals and thus crafts his characters so they do.Additionally, Doctorow has a particular knack, very enjoyable for the reader, of putting together ideas in a way that have the ring of common sense, yet in a way in which they hadn't quite yet been put together -- a certain "sticky", memorable way that sits easily in the brainpan.  Certainly, reputation economics has been around since time immemorial ... but only Doctorow termed it "whuffie" inhis first novel, and since then, that's what many people know it as.  That knack is in full display in this novel.Still, for this reviewer, the "triumph" of this particular political ideal ended up also causing problems with suspension of disbelief.  Despite my desire to be optimistic about the world, this book displays a grand-scale triumph over big business interests -- and an act of enlightened behavior on big business' part -- that I just don't see happening in reality.  Of course, that opinion may easily be attributable to cynical elements within my own worldview, and, given that this is a young adult book, hopefully such elements will not have had as much time to take root in younger readers.An additional "flaw" I found is one on a larger scale: Doctorow's novels have recently begun trending more towards polemics, and away from individual character growth and development.  When I readDown and Out in the Magic Kingdom,Eastern Standard Tribe, orSomeone Comes to Town, Someone Leaves Town, it is clear I'm witnessing events happening to a single character, a life experience that involves growth and development, set in a Doctorow "geek world" I'd love to inhabit with Doctorow-style geek characters I'd love to have in my life.  The geek relationships in those books are reminiscent of one of my most favorite books,Microserfs, by Douglas Coupland ... and that's one of the best compliments I can give an author.Nowadays, though, the brush he's wielding withMakers,Little Brother, and now this novel -- it is one that strikes me as far more broad and less subtle.  To borrow film directors as an analogy, Doctorow seems to be writing in the style of Michael Bay lately, instead of character studies such as one might see with Scorsese or Kubrick.I'd like to see him work more towards those character studies he first worked with.  I hope to see him work more with the framework of characters interacting in near-future worlds, a framework used in his earlier works, rather than the grand tales of polemic futurepolitik he has recently begun writing.
3 I've never read anything by Doctorow beyond a few blog posts here and there, but since this was a free audio download from my library, I thought I'd check him out. The story is set in the near future, where 6 of the world's 20 largest economies belong to the virtual worlds of variously themed MMOs (Massive Multiplayer Online games, such asWorld of Warcraft). And wherever there are large economies, be they "real" or virtual, there are people who will find a way to carve out a sliver (or large slice) of that pie for themselves. The virtual MMO world has so-called "gold farmers" -- mainly teenagers in Southeast Asia and South Asia, who play the game in sweatshop-like conditions for the sole purpose of amassing in-game wealth that can be sold for real-world cash, the majority of which goes into the pockets of their bosses. I've been hearing and reading about gold farmers for at least five years, and here they their fictional turn in the role of downtrodden, exploited worker. And ever it was such.Last century, the writer Upton Sinclair wrote book after book after book like this -- didactic novels that decried the conditions of the working man and tried to show how the bosses kept 'em down. (Sinclair is perhaps best remembered for his muckraking expose of the meatpacking industry,The Jungle, although his book Oil! was recently adapted into the acclaimed filmThere Will Be Blood.) I'm almost entirely sympathetic with the worldview Doctorow is presenting in this book, I just find the dramatization of it to be pretty weak. The problem is that Doctorow appears less interested in delivering a good story to his (teen) audience, than he does in educating them. Time after time, the story of an LA teen, a group of Indian slum kids, and a cast of Chinese gamers, grinds to a halt so Doctorow can provide a big info-dump on topics such as monetary policy,  macroeconomic theory, probability theory, financial instruments such as credit default swaps, hedged positions, Bernie Madoff-like ponzi scheme, multi-level marketing, and soforth.I guess I'd rather have teens reading and potentially learning about some of this stuff as opposed toGossip Girlteen tripe, or the latest attempt to cash in on vampire vogue -- I just wish a good editor had been able to tame some of Doctorow's excesses and keep the narrative pace moving along. To his credit, there are a lot of strong scenes scattered throughout the book, a lot of the relationships are well developed, and he's quite good at conjuring up strong images of game play. (One thing I wonder about is the extent to which someone who has never played an MMO or is at least fairly familiar with how they work will really be able to get into the book. Doctorow attempts to build some explanation of the games and gameplay into the beginning of the story, but it's not really sufficient.)Bottom line: if you're into video games, current global pop culture, and issues of social justice, give it 20-30 pages to grab you.
4 The near future. In India and China many thousands of gamers are slaving in PC sweatshops, working as gold farmers, accumulating virtual money in various online games and then selling it for real money to rich Western players who can't be bothered to put the grindwork in. However, there are growing calls for the gold farmers to unite and unionise for better conditions. And when that happens, the authorities strike back hard.For the Win is based around the process of 'gold farming', a problem in modern computer games like World of WarCraft where poor players in the Far East do the hard work to make money for players in the West. The novel predicts that in the near future, these games' economies will become so vast that the gold farmers will become an institutionalised form of work, another Asian sweatshop churning out product for the benefit of the West. However, due to the fact this work is undertaken on the Internet, it also means that the gold farmers can communicate with not just one another, but other farmers right across the world, and that lays the groundwork for strikes and possibly even revolution.Cory Doctorow's novel charts the rise of online gaming from a niche entertainment industry into a massive economy which can be gamed and exploited like any other. Many of the issues Doctorow has identified have already been the subject of studies by economic bodies, and he unifies a technical interest in the field with more human stories about worker exploitation and also a larger idea about how much longer can the single Chinese state control everything in the face of such vast influences from outside the country, particularly with regards to workers' rights and unions. For the Win is a slightly stronger novel than his earlier Little Brother, which tripped over itself and muddied up its themes towards the end of the volume. Here, Doctorow remains on-message throughout.Structurally, the novel moves between several sets of characters in China, India and a couple of guys in the USA. These characters are well-characterised and carefully delineated so it's easy to keep track of who's who (the cast ends up being quite large). However, the novel meanders a little bit in its opening half. Character-building and plot-advancing scenes are bogged down by three-page divergences on economic theory, whilst Doctorow front-loads the book with a lot of MMORPG terms which have mostly disappeared by the time the book ends. At this stage it's like a Kim Stanley Robinson or Neal Stephenson novel (not exactly bad company to be in) with lots of interesting material, but it's unclear what the point of it all is. Then Doctorow draws the plot threads together in the second half, building to a big finale. I wondered if he was going for a world-changing, ushering-in-a-new-age ending, but instead Doctorow gives us something that is somewhat optimistic whilst retaining a fair degree of realism.On the negative side, it's unclear if the book has already been outdated: the failure of any non-World of WarCraft MMORPG to take off in a significantly profitable manner in the West and the resulting move to microtransaction-fuelled social games (such as CityVille, which launched last December and had ten times as many players as World of WarCraft in less than eight weeks), a move followed by several of the standard MMORPGs, means that Doctorow's economic model in the novel is already looking dubious. Whilst gold farming in these social games is still possible, the much tighter regulations imposed by playing under the framework of Facebook would make some of manipulations as seen in the novel harder to pull off. That said, the recent ability of the Internet to influence political change shows that some of the ideas in the novel that initially look unrealistic are indeed possible. There is also some unrealistic dialogue (a paragraph-long speech from a player on economic power is impressive until you realise the person saying it is 14) and the ending hinges on the goodwill of people who have no real reason to support the gold farmers. But Doctorow just about manages to sell it.For the Win (***) raises and addresses a number of thought-provoking subjects related to the emergence of these online economies and their impact on developing countries. The book is available now in the UK and USA, or indeed for free from Cory Doctor's website.
3 More flat characters and more heavy preaching from Doctorow. [spoilers ahead] After finishing the book, I'm not even sure what the point was. Everyone does better if we unionize? Except that the workers who unionized had to flee their homes or lose their lives, because creating a worldwide union didn't magically change things in the workers' home countries and won't prevent non-union gold farmers from working for bosses who will mistreat them. Additionally, although I love gaming, the heavy gamer-worship in the book was a turnoff to me.
4 I had never read any of Cory Doctorow's work but he is constantly showing up on radio shows or in news articles so I thought I would give this a shot.I didn't realize this was supposed to be a kids book, it's quite long, and while not very hard to read, seems like it would only be appropriate for an intelligent teen who was an avid reader.  Most would probably put it down.When the author is moving the story forward, this book is well written, and it's quite a page turner.  He does a good job developing the characters, the settings are vividly described, and the story moves well.  At other times, he goes off on a tangent and is basically giving a lecture on his particular viewpoint or trying to explain complex financial or labor concepts from his point of view.  These portions of the book certainly drag on, although not terribly.  These sections also seem most likely to turn off younger readers.One of the weakest points is that the book never really tries to explain how virtual economies come to be so important in the book's version of the future.  It's something that could have used explanation, as it seems fairly improbable on many levels.  He develops many of the concepts around this idea deeply, but never bothers to consider all the forces which would/will/have stopped this from happening in reality.  Basically the book just assumes that it's vision will come true, and given that it is very near-future, it left me wanting an explanation.The author also stereotypes some of the characters very badly.  The book is very pro-labor, pro-gamer, etc.. and that is fine but it also has some strange stereotypes with respect to the engineers & businessmen who run the game systems that don't really add anything to the story and aren't very realistic.Lastly, it is great that the book is available for free as an ebook, but do note there are advertisements spliced into the text of the book.  They are not terribly intrusive though, and are also not distributed evenly throughout the book.  I read one of these ebooks, and my only real complaint would be that the ebook did not have a table of contents.
4 All over the world, teens are playing multiplayer games. In India and China, many of these players are "gold miners," paid by local businessmen to play the game, turning over any treasures found for sale to rich American players who want to level up without actually going through the work of beating bosses or completing quests. Work conditions are horrible, and many of these young workers are beaten if they don't perform or if they threaten to go into business for themselves.According to author Cory Doctorow these games, and the electronic treasures they drop, constitute several of the world's top economies, which means that exploiting Asian teens is big business. Because they play over the Internet, though, these exploited workers are able to communicate and one of them, Big Sister Nor, comes up with the idea a new version of the 'one big union' (the IWW or Wobblies). A union makes sense--although any small group of these players can be replaced, all of them together are a force greater than any single boss. Fortunately for the workers, the game managers themselves aren't really invested in allowing exploitation.Doctorow has a knack for looking at the world and seeing interesting potentials. I remember reading a Wall Street Journal article about Asian gold miners and thinking 'isn't that interesting.' Doctorow ran with the idea and came up with a novel. In my reading experience, Doctorow usually doesn't quite live up to the potential of his story. His writing is unexceptional, his characters tend to be flat, and sometimes wonderful solutions sort of fall out of nowhere. There's some of this in FOR THE WIN. I had a hard time believing in a teen who taught himself Mandarin so he could on-line chat with fellow game players (who already spoke English). In this book, though, Doctorow stepped up his story-telling. He did a great job describing the exploitation of the game workers, the environments that they work in, the factory world of China where everyone is illegal and where the police seem to exist to back up exploiting bosses. In general, I think Doctorow is an important author for SF fans (and writers) to read but that his books aren't always enjoyable. FOR THE WIN was both important and enjoyable.
2 I bought this book new, hard back. Yes, I know it is free in places, but I like the old fashioned book. I'd heard Cory talk about this book on Leo Laporte's TWIT show, it sounded like an interesting idea. Video game gold farmers. So I bought it.Unfortunately, soon after the story narrative, large parts of the story take on a didactic tone about unions. The book comes across as pro-union propaganda wrapped around a potentially great story.I'm not making a judgement on unions, but commenting on my preference the author would have lightened up on the preachy pro-union parts of the story if writing fiction. It was just too clumsy.I made it over halfway through, and just quit reading it.
4 The thing is- we are currently in a new Gilded Age, where the legal system attacks any collective action, and where the robber barons are winning everything.Collective action is really the only alternative. Yeah, unions have been bad-mouthed for years- sometimes justifiably- but NEW unions might be everyone in the 99%'s best hope.I liked that this novel showed what's happening in ALL markets, albeit by means of game economies.Apart from the politics, it's an engaging novel. The POV people are varied and engaging, with very different perspectives and experiences, but still pretty well-realized.But- all that aside- it's a pretty great page-turner. The plot is nicely twisty, and not unrealistic, and it's fascinating watching the characters grow when they're faced with something outside their perceptions.
2 After Doctorow's last YA effort, Little Brother, I was really looking forward to his next. I should not have been.&#34;For the Win&#34; is character soup. They're all foreign people. And while I have no problem reading about foreign people, it give me problems finding the sympathetic character to identify with. I'll be the first to say it -- I'm not interested in reading about East Indian or Korean gold farmers. There's nothing for me, an American audience, to hang a hat on. The people in these books obsessively play MMORPG's. They're sick. They need help, not encouragement.This is a novel that's more interested in economics and politics than in the characters it's describing. Economics is a mystery to me, and it always will be. I have no interest in it, even though I should. To me, it's magic. And not the good kind of magic that Merlin uses. It's the &#34;any sufficiently advanced something is indistinguishable from magic&#34; that Arthur C. Clarke uses. I think all the youth of America agrees with me that economics + young adult = you're going to have trouble finding an audience while the next Twilight book is sharing your shelf space. This is now my least favorite Doctorow book.
4 Doctorow takes readers on a journey to the slums of India and the sprawling industrial cities of China in a tale that seems at once contemporary and slightly futuristic. Although the plot was a bit muddled at times and the cast of characters grows slightly too large by the end, the author nonetheless entertains while educating about economics and human rights conditions, and manages to challenge our assumptions about the "inevitable" direction of globalization.
5 Doctorow isn't afraid to write long, meaty books with complex political and economic themes. As someone not enamored of dumbing-down literature for teens, I loved For The Win. Although it's set in the present, Doctorow's novel about virtual economies has enough sci-fi flair and steam-punk-esque vibes to appeal to fans of apocalyptic futures such as Hunger Games or the Uglies Trilogy. Doctorow writes superb characters: driven, ambitious kids with revolutionary spirits and a good heads on their shoulders. I especially liked 15-year-old Mala ("General Robotwalla") whose leadership and vision carried her virtual troops to victory. For the Win has a lot to teach readers about how serious, and deadly, any economic system--even the virtual ones--can become. Doctorow has intense zeal for the new political crises of the virtual age--privacy, gaming, intellectual freedom, and social justice--and it shows through the passion he channels to craft this masterful thriller. Highly recommended to adults, teens, and anyone who knows that it's never just a game.
4 I was first introduced to Cory Doctorow's books when I picked up the young adult novel Little Brother, which is a kind of counter-culture, grass-roots, cyber-terrorism sort of story, and I loved it. With those descriptive terms, what's not to love?Anywho, when I went to the American Library Association national conference in Washington, D.C. this summer I attended a sci-fi panel that Cory Doctorow was on. Besides being cute in a nerdy way, Doctorow was entertaining and interesting in his discussions of all things sci-fi and technology. (Side note: I don't really think of his writings as SciFi, so don't let that scare you off.)I got a grab bag of books of the newest books of all the authors on the panel including Doctorow's latest, For the Win. The book follows a revolution of youth as they fight back against the companies they work for - online multi-player games owned by the Coca Cola Company -- that bring in big money for everyone except the workers; children and teens working mainly in India and China. Led by the mysterious Big Sister Nor, a cyber union called the Webblies forms and begins to bring about change in both the online worlds and the real world sweat shops to which they are so closely linked.Doctorow weaves the story bringing together the most unlikely of characters; Mala, a born leader growing up on the streets of Dharvi, India, Leonard; a privileged Orange County teen who loves everything Chinese, and a beautiful young woman turned radio personality trying to help mobilize girls working in the sweat shops.Because Doctorow is such a lover of all things open-source and a self-proclaimed "technology activist," his book is actually available for free download, so there's nothing to stop you from reading it right this second.
4 Cory Doctorow's gospel of the brave new world of the future that isn't all that far removed from today continues with For The Win. Like the novel that preceded it,Makers, which proposed a consumer-led society and a necessarily flexible business model with no great vision other than to churn out disposable crap and cater to nostalgia through self-evolving theme park rides, many will also "blame" the author here for not giving them a more idealistic, utopian society that they believe the rapid advancements in technology should bring, rather than the continually dumbed-down one that is more likely to be the case.Doctorow is not here to offer any comforting visions in For The Win, finding instead a near-future where it's gamers who call the shots and potentially earn the big bucks, even if it is just virtual gold in worldwide-networked computer games. When you think about it, is this any less unlikely a scenario than banks and investors trading in "virtual" stocks and shares with your borrowed money? It's a potential economic "reality" that Charles Stross has already recognised in his novelHalting State, considering the impact that the robbery of a weapons store in a computer game can have on the players and the business who need to protect their customer's interests and investments - even if that investment is nothing more than virtual treasures, weapons and gold.Similarly with "a connection to the net and a brain in your head", in For The Win, there's money to be made in the virtual world of Svartalfheim, Mushroom Kingdom or Zombie Mecha for enterprising gamers, gold farmers, willing to collect precious objects, weapons and powers that can be speculated upon and traded with other players too lazy to do it themselves, or just looking for an easy entry into a popular game without having to put the necessary hard work and the hours into it. Not unsurprisingly, the workers earning the little money that this brings in are all based in China, India and Indonesia, and they are exploited, much in the same way as today by the greed of the Western world. The net can however also make it possible for those exploited workers to join up and form a powerful global union and maybe do something about it.And again, Doctorow is absolutely right. Ok, so maybe the computer game will not become the stock market of the future (some people do unfortunately take Doctorow a little bit too literally, regarding him as some kind of prophet) but the principle is sound, the author considering historical examples of economic theory and extrapolating on how this could be affected by a new global community with new rising economic forces and the potential offered by great advances in technology. When I say "gospel" however, Doctorow can be annoyingly preachy at times, using his characters more as mouthpieces than real people, having one sit down with another and condescendingly explain economic theory in kiddie terms. Ultimately, the ideas take precedence over the story - the characters are interesting, but never come to life when they are used as little more than sentimental pawns - but the lesson is an interesting one and it's one worth going over in detail in order to consider where the future might take us, or whether to a large extent we're not already there.
1 Sorry, I gave it as a present to someone who turned out to be a turd.  No idea what it was like.
4 I loved the first half of this book, but for me, the second half bogged down some.  I still enjoyed it, but wasn't unhappy for it to end.Imagine a world a few years forward from ours. On-line gaming is a really, really big deal. The amount of money moving around within the games is huge. It's all play money, of course. Except there are significant numbers of people willing to trade real money for it."Gold farms" are a booming business- groups spend long hours playing to earn game cash and other rewards, which then get sold to players looking for a boost. At first glance, it seems like a dream come true- get paid to play video games. However, sweatshop conditions for these farmers take the pleasure away, and the demanding bosses with out of game enforcers take away the possibility of starting your own business.The book follows several people:Matthew is a young man in China, who is attempting to set up his own crew farming gold. His old bosses are not pleased.Wei-Dong is an American high school student. He's renamed himself to fit in better with his Chinese buddies he plays with all night. He finds himself living on his own when he runs away from his family, who are about to ship him to a school that will help him stay on track, away from any distractions.Mala lives in India, and commands her own army of players. When they first are offered money to play, it seems too good to be true. They find themselves deeper and deeper in a situation far less pleasant than expected.More characters are introduced throughout the book, and I was overwhelmed by them all near the end. There were so many, each with a role to play.At the beginning of the book, I loved the look at the interplay between the real and gaming worlds. The look at the meaning of money was fascinating and thought provoking. Bringing in politics and unions also kept causing me to stop and think about it. When the game-makers views of the issues were added, I loved seeing that side. Eventually, it got to be a little too much.Overall, that's my opinion of the book- too much of too many good things.
5 This is one of the best YA books I've read this year.  You want to understand the world children live in, what they can do for hours and hours in a game, this is a book for you.  Do you want to be enlightened to the fact that sweatshops exist in all shapes and sizes?  This is the book for you.  Are you interested in economics, stocks, ponzi schemes and other scams, unionization and it's future?  This is definitely the book for you.With a patient hand, Cory Doctorow gives clear, easy to understand examples of everything I talked about in my previous paragraph.  Even if you are not a gamer, an explanation is always handy when gamer terms are brought into this story.  If you are a teenager, then no worries - every single scheme is detailed out with easy to understand analogies.The story flips back and forth between China, India, the US .. the entire globe.  Everywhere children are being mistreated by the "bosses", those monopolizing the gold farming market - but these kids are good.  They're really good, and now they are demanding the decent rights that every worker should have.  This is not your typical video gaming set of kids - these are children who play 15+ hours a DAY farming the same area over and over - why? Because they love the games.I could seriously rattle on and on about how much I loved this book, but I want everyone to read it.  Gamer or no, this book should be on your list - give it to the teenagers you know, recommend it.  I feel like, for the first time, I have some understanding with regards to how economics works .. all because of a book about gaming.
5 Some reviewers are accurate in saying this novel does not explore character development. That is a valid complaint. It is the complaint most often lodged against sci-fi including greats like H.G. Wells, Jack Vance, etc. Many literary critics, however, have pointed out that a Novel of Ideas has a different purpose than a Novel of Characters and should be judged by its intention.Why write a Novel of Ideas when you could just write nonfiction essays, one commenter said. The reason is that we identify with the characters when written as fiction and the ideas permeate us more fully.The best kind of novel would have the ideas, and the characters would also develop, like H.G. Wells Ann Veronica, or Jack Vance's character Wayness Tamm in the Araminta Station trilogy. But among the fifty-ish novels each of those two authors gave us, only one or two stand out as having the Character AND the Idea. Perhaps it is difficult to do both, and rare. Cory Doctorow gave us only the Idea, not the Character, in For the Win.I thoroughly enjoyed For the Win. The idea kept me reading late into the night. I'd like to give the rest of this review to the Idea that Doctorow gave us in this book. The idea is compassion. It is not just a political stance, which could easily be catagorized as Liberal, with the value of Unions for exploited workers. But there are many scenes beginning about a third of the way through the book, and continuing through the end, that give an unconditionally compassionate perspective. For example, on p 179, the enlightened character Ashok says:"You can talk all you want about 'Indian workers,' but until you find solidarity with all workers, you'll never be able to protect your precious Indian workers."This is a perspective that does not (yet) belong to the Left or to the Right. What I want, I wish for others, even my competitors in other counteries, is a version of the Golden Rule, that has been around since Confucious and Leviticus and later Jesus. This is the Idea in For the Win. And I feel this Idea alone is worth five stars, and worth encouraging many people to read.I am forty eight, and I bought a copy for my 22 year old daughter. She has struggled with optimism about the direction the world is going. If more people would read books like this, perhaps the enthusiasm of human solidarity would spread. That is the purpose of a Novel of Ideas. And if the people of the Writer's generation dismiss the Idea as something that will never happen, perhaps it will be the following generation, or 2000 years later that people still reading will say, "you know, I think he was right and let's do this Idea now."For these reasons I feel this novel fits into the category of Wells' "Novel of Ideas," and this is an Idea worth supporting.
4 In spite of my disappointment with his recent collaboration with Charles Stross (see my review of The Rapture of the Nerds), Cory Doctorow remains a favorite author of mine.  His vision of the near future and the realistic projection of technological trends is brilliant and unequaled.  In his 2010 book For the Win, Doctorow explores the world of online gaming and the workers who toil away in the gold-farming sweat shops.  If you are like me (before I read For the Win), that last sentence makes no sense.  So for non-gamers like me, FTW is an education.There are, in real life, these games that involve players from all over the world (massively multiplayer online role-playing games, or MMORPGs), playing against each other independently and in teams, using an online economy for buying and trading rewards, weapons, etc.  Thus there is a market for in-game objects, and an industry of professional gamers who play for the sole purpose of obtaining said objects to sell to other gamers.  Many of those gamers work for wages in computer sweat shops.With me so far?  Like I said, this is a world I have never experienced.  Doctorow tells the story of some of these gamers who lead a labor revolt, melding real-world and online-world tactics, to gain better working conditions and rights as workers.  The result is quite interesting and believable.  He draws on the history of labor movements from the industrial revolution forward, drawing direct connections to the era of internet labor.  The sidebars on economics, labor movements, multi-level marketing, and the like do interrupt the flow of the story, but are thought-provoking and draw FTW into the realm of the polemical novel.  (This will please some and turn away many, but I think it's interesting that Doctorow seems to have a larger agenda than to simply tell an interesting story.)Besides the message of FTW, the story is well-told.  Spanning several continents and developing characters from several cultures, Doctorow puts it all together, not letting the reader get bogged down with the interlocking story lines.  All in all, FTW is a fun novel with a good story, but has a social message worth thinking about as well.
5 Read this book. A fast paced compelling story with great characters transforms into the most moving fiction I've read in 10 years. Quotes from this book feel permanently lodged in my head and my outlook is deeply changed. Not just about gaming, "For The Win" focuses on courage, solidarity and fairness. This book is a timely myth for the world of the arab spring, the occupy movement and Otpur!This is the best book I've read all year long and I cannot recommend it more highly.
3 Up to two "novels" ago, I was a Doctorow fan.  "Makers" had a great foundational idea, but became tedious after the first 250 pages.  "For the Win" began to be unworthy of Doctorow after barely 100 pages.  It may be that some truly dedicatedgamesters will enjoy this -- in the event that dedicated gamers read at all.  As a novel, extremely disjunct.Extremely disappointing.
2 First a minor issue: there were several missing words, misspelled words, words with random spaces in them, or generally poor editing in the text. This was distracting, but ultimately forgivable. What was less forgivable was how the author consistently and repeatedly stretched credulity to the breaking point. There were so many instances of it that it is hard to chose were to begin.Of course the most obvious issue is how a group of teenagers, many as young as fourteen, have the maturity, patience, strategic vision, eloquence, motivation and gravitas necessary to create and coordinate an enormous global labor movement. That's a tough one to swallow but were it the only thing odd about the narrative we could file it under "suspension of disbelief" and move on. Unfortunately, that is only the beginning for these preternaturally gifted protagonists.One of the more egregious issues is how Big Sister Nor is used as a form of deus-ex machina; several times in the story we are told by whichever character is narrating at the time that they knew how to do something or had the courage to attempt something because they had a long personal conversation with Big Sister Nor. Where the hell does Big Sister Nor find the time to have all of these lengthy personal coaching sessions with people and coordinate the global efforts of hundreds of thousands of "Webblies" and be a raid leader in several different games and personally woo people like Mala to her cause?That brings up another salient point: It takes a good long while to become a great player in any given MMO but the major characters in this book seem to switch between them almost indiscriminately and can play at a world-class level in all of them. The author further suggests that playing MMORPGs can turn teenaged girls into real-world tactical geniuses. That might be so, but when these same girls use their gifts to win physical fights as if they were martial arts masters you wonder how that could be possible. Even if we swallow that these kids are tactical geniuses thanks to their countless hours spent gaming, that doesn't give them the motor-control, muscle-memory, or physical strength to wield sticks, hands, feet, or stones with masterful efficiency. If anything they should be weaker and softer than average given how much time they spend being sedentary.Also, while I respect the author's thinly-veiled attempts to show that "girls can be leaders to!" I couldn't help but notice that every one of the male protagonists is a clueless puppy hoping to be praised and led around by whichever teenaged girl is closest.I am entirely sympathetic to the overarching point the author is trying to make. "Power to the People" and all that. However, each successive chapter had me rolling my eyes at the feats of these nearly superhuman teenagers and how they pull off the world's largest economic coup d'&eacute;tat. Yes, this is a work of fiction and the author can make his characters do whatever he can imagine. However, authors of quality ensure their characters follow the rules they themselves set. Since we are given no explanation for how these kids came to be so highly talented, we have to assume they are ordinary kids, but ordinary kids would never be able to do the things described in this book. With all of the eye-roll-inducing moments in this story, it reads more like wish-fulfillment fan-fiction than literature.
5 If somebody alked up to me and said, "I have a book I know you're going to love. It's all about economics, labour unions, and the unfair working conditions in developping countries," I might suspect this person doesn't know my reading tastes very well. Such a book might appeal to those with specific interests, but me, well, that's not my thing.And then this person would hand me For the Win, and I'd be intrigued because it involves gaming, something I'm familiar with. And then I'd read it, and be blown away.That's Doctorow's genius in this book. He can take all of the above concepts and make them not only interesting, but make them into something that anyone can relate to, especially today's game-happy youth culture. He can take economics and break them down into the simply complex and absurd things that they are, and make it comprehensible. He makes the legnths that some companies go to to control virtual wealth seem like what it is: ridiculous and yet incredibly valuable. This book makes you look at the world, see it in a different light, and get outraged that it isn't better. It's hard-hitting, heartbreaking, and like the games it talks about, endlessly entertaining.The characters are, above all else, wonderfully human. There are sides of right and wrong, and the lines are clearly drawn, but the people on the side of good are still flawed, violent and angry and they make mistakes, and sometimes those mistakes end up fatal. These are people you could pass on the street, could see at school; they don't have to be half a world away in some poorly-ventilated sweatshop, and that just seeks to underscore the message of labour equality that's the main focus of the novel. "There are no Chinese workers. There are just workers."If you think this books comes across as being a bit preachy, you'd be right. But when your characters are fighting for the right to refuse 22-hour shifts without being beaten, fighting for the right to not be raped in order to hang onto their jobs, I think a little preachiness is allowed.This book came to me highly recommended, and it leaves my hands in the same state. Go, pick up this book, read it and learn things that you may not have even thought about before. And I dare you to tell me that at the end of it, you didn't feel your moral centre being tugged at, even just a little.
5 I just finished reading FTW. It took me forever, but I loved every minute of it. Each character is so unique and the power of them coming together is so compelling. Plus I learned a ton about about the culture and economies of gaming worlds that I was only tangentially familiar with before.Highly recommended especially if you're interested in gaming, labor, online/grassroots organizing, and the working conditions in developing nations.I won't tell you where I "bought" this book as Amazon will edit it out anyway...
3 I enjoyed Doctorow's book and know quite a bit about the massively multiplayer games he describes in this novel of players, gold farmers, and evil bosses. The plot turns on understanding virtual economies, however, so Doctorow has to spend quite a bit of time halting the action to explain how these work. That's fine if you find that subject interesting, but if you don't, be prepared to do some serious skimming. Not a bad book but not a great one either.
5 You can't sum up For The Win, by comparing it to other books. Instead when you think of it you have to take pieces from many different entertainment icons. For example when I try to describe For The Win, I would compare it to a combination of Orson Scott Card's Ender's Game, Halo, and the movie The Sting. Only after having considered all of these pieces can you get an inkling of what For The Win is like.And yet it is more than all of that. For The Win also included important and accurate descriptions of financial definitions and schemes, such as buying futures, economies of scale, and even a ponzi scheme. But these inter-chapters detailing financial issues are critical to understanding the book, and so I was amazed at how well Doctorow is able to convey these issues to the reader.But as I mentioned For The Win is more than that. It is an enthralling action packed novel that has detailed memorable characters, detailed plot twists, and an engaging story. Because of this I would recommend this book to anyone, teen or adult, as it is an exceptional novel that both teaches and entertains, a rare feat in any book. And so everyone should go out and get it today.[...]
4 There are a lot of MMO's being played, and this story is about those who work in the MMO's - gold farmers, enforcers, game masters, and contracted game designers. Their stories collide over labor issues. This is a journey of unions as a concept for these various workers as they clash with the game owners, gold company owners, and police states.For those perennial players of MMO's this is actually an easier story to get into since you can skip the many explanations of in-game mechanics and slang of MMO's, which are provided for those non-gamers. Some of the economics explanations were helpful though.There were a lot of viewpoints and not all of them were as fully fleshed out as they could have been, but the collective story they told was well thought out. The ending is what one would expect of a dystopia book and was actually quite fitting if not entirely satisfying.Be warned there is actually quite a bit of violence. Doctorow is again wonderful in his portrayal of an only slightly altered present day. He take today's societies and tech affixations and adds a dose of need to control opposed by a rebellion element and creates a very interesting world to read about.
5 Doctorow spins a convincing tale and inspires me to work for unions and worker rights.  Read this, and tell all your friends.
3 Kudos to Doctorow for making his books available for free download.  My comments apply to the ePub version I downloaded from his website.The book is a weird mixture where parts of it contain gripping action and engaging character while other parts grind to a halt with unrealistic dialog when one or another character goes on and on preaching Doctorow's economic theories.  It felt like I was reading a lefty Ayan Rand where John Galt was replaced with a bunch of underage gamers.  I think Cory's message is great, but the way it's delivered in this book is very heavy handed.  And some of the action simply doesn't make sense (like one of the characters making a long, dangerous "real world" journey to to physically transport something he could have much more easily sent via email).Doctorow does create a cast of members that you learn to care about. You feel their pain as their friends get hurt and you cheer them on during their victories.  Some of the settings are also skillfully created and give you a sense of "being there".I think the book would have very much benefited from better editing.  The various typos and inconsistencies are distracting and make it feel as if it were self published.  Some of the language is downright awkward: "... and it was delivered with surprising tenderness, so it was quite a surprise when..."For all I know, the published version is better edited than the free downloads, but I don't think I'll be checking my library to find out.
5 Doctorow's peace and love politics wins out in the battle for the control of social network gaming. Organizing sweat shop gamers who mine internet 'gold' for Dickensian villains into a worldwide movement for www freedom creates heroic characters from across the globe. Even a Southern California suburban rebel can become a Chinese spouting  firebrand to rally the troops.
5 For the casual video-gamer, a few hours a couple days a week adds little bursts of excitement and fun. Some even dabble in online game play where they meet up with friends and complete quests or missions while communicating with each other in the comfort of their own homes. In FOR THE WIN, Cory Doctorow introduces the harrowing landscape of online multiplayer games complete with bustling economies, the chance to strike it rich, and the horrors of a run-down workforce.Virtual gold is what it's all about. Virtual gold buys players that newest armor, the best sword, magical healing, or whatever it takes to get ahead in the game. What kind of impact does virtual gold have on the real world? The creators of the game control all the gold, and they get investors to pump all their real money into the games. The real world and the virtual world are linked. If the virtual world would collapse, then it could spell utter doom for the fragile world economies.Creators of the game regulate the gold by enlisting the help of players known as "gold farmers," whose primary responsibility is to harvest gold and sell to the highest bidder. Most of these "gold farmers" work in horrible conditions under cruel and inhumane bosses, and they are tired of being treated as second-class citizens. This is where the story begins as Doctorow spins a tale that encompasses numerous countries, nationalities, and languages.Sixteen-year-old Matthew works in Shenzhen under the brutal Mr. Wing, who is not afraid to use physical force to keep his workers in line. Matthew dreams of the day when he can play his favorite game free from the watchful eye of Mr. Wing. High school student Leonard lives in Southern California, but goes by his Chinese name Wei-Dong, seeing as he belongs in a group of Chinese game players who he plays with for fun. Wei-Dong feels a million miles away from his comrades and yearns to help them as they complain about their problems. Mala commands a small virtual army in rural India and has recently begun "gold-farming" for Mr. Banerjee. She is initially thrilled with the uptick of Rupees, but slowly begins to realize that someone owns her.Matthew, Wei-Dong, Mala, and others are just a small group of gamers who are gradually joining forces with the Webblies, a rebel group challenging the working conditions of numerous types of sweatshops around the world. Headed up by the mysterious Big Sister Nor, the Webblies have a plan to bring the gaming companies to their knees until things change. A strike among workers is looming, and Matthew, Wei-Dong, and Mala all have a part to play --- even if it means risking their lives. Organizing a worldwide strike isn't easy, however, and the Webblies have to play it smart; otherwise, it could be game over.One of the most enlightening aspects of FOR THE WIN is the fact that it is very educational. Being a casual gamer, I had no idea that online multiplayer games were so popular or even that they are their own virtual economies. Cory Doctorow does an excellent job bringing "outsiders" up to speed. For the serious gamers, FOR THE WIN will ring true to home, and you'll find yourself getting swept up in all the technical aspects that Doctorow includes throughout the book. Be prepared to give up the innocence of Mario and Luigi, and get ready to be launched into the complex and exciting world of online gaming.
3 "For the Win" is the sixth novel by the acclaimed journalist and science-fiction writer Cory Doctorow, and his second for young adults. Set in the not-too-distant future, it takes as its subject the phenomenon of massively-multiplayer online roleplaying games (MMORPGs). In Doctorow's vision, these games - the successors to titles such as World of Warcraft - have grown to the extent that they have become fully-fledged economies in themselves, with sweatshop-workers in India and China employed by villainous bosses to "farm" the game-worlds for prestige items that can be sold to players in return for real-world cash. The novel follows some of those workers as they try to overturn the system and bring about fair conditions and pay for all.An interesting premise, perhaps, but there is little that is especially original or ground-breaking about it. In fact the majority of the action takes place in the real world, not the virtual one, and aside from a few brief glimpses at the beginning of the novel, we see remarkably little of the games described - which would not only have been enlightening to less informed readers but might have provided a useful counterpoint to the real world. At the same time, there is little attempt to explore the psychology of the gamers themselves, which might have helped bring the characters to life, and establish greater sympathy for them. It would have been interesting to gain some insight into what attracts players to MMORPGs, and why they invest so much time and effort in them.Certainly there are some exciting moments - many of the characters are on the run from the authorities, utilising their computing expertise to deliver illicit night-time broadcasts to workers worldwide - but on the whole the plot fails to deliver much drama. The narrative is weighed down by large sections of exposition on economic theory, which demonstrates the depth of Doctorow's research and the extent of his passion, but which is largely unnecessary, quickly becoming tiresome and repetitive while also hindering the pace. The conclusion, too, is strangely anticlimactic, leaving the reader to wonder what ultimately is the novel's message.This is not to say that Doctorow doesn't present some interesting ideas about both the future of online gaming and of global economics. Nevertheless, in the end "For the Win" remains a long-winded and frustrating novel which never quite manages to live up to its potential.
5 "For the Win" is outstanding!Just as early 'futuristic' novels like 1984,Brave New World, I Robot, and many other fantasy/sci-fi classics "For the Win" looks ahead to a time when virtual slaves begin to see beyond their 'gold farming' and see a better world.  Doctorows' previous novel, Little Brother, tackled an equally dangerous topic, but this time he dares imagine a world influenced by a 15 year old gamer, Mala and her growing army!This may have begun as a what-if scenario, but strangely enough, it bears sembleance to a Suite Life Episode when Moseby and Cody are players in the same virtual game, and once they see each other in real life, they realize that they have formed a bond beyond age.  For the Win takes on the same concept with zest and creativity.The big question he tackles fictionally is 'what kind of power can a virtual army have?'  Just as swarming random places and events can create chaos, is positive change possible with the same theory?This is survivor, overdrive as Leonard (Wei-Dong) builds a gold farming team in California and battles with his Asian battle buddies under the guidance of Big Sister and her worldly wisdom.  Against the digital armies, the 'real' forces use extortion, blackmail, violence, infiltration, and even murder is not out of range.  I love this book!Even though I am not a gamer, nor do I understand the intricacies of the virtual worlds, online virtual battles, or even facebook sometimes, I appreciate the power of digital 'friends' and team building platforms.  Just look at facebook, how many friends do you have?This is a must read for anyone who needs to understand the rapidly changing world of games, social digital networks, twitters, and our global communication network.Highly recommended!Tim Lasiuta
2 (40-something male reader)This book easily could have been half the length that it is but for whatever reason the editor decided to let Doctorow be as discursive as he pleases. It tested my patience as an adult and I'm sure it will test the patience of the young adult target audience. Also, for adult readers with an iota of knowledge about economics, be prepared to sit through a lot of spoon feeding of basic principles for the young adult audience.As other reviewers have commented, it is a soup of characters without any strong lead. And once the basic conflict is set up it kind of plays out as one very long chase sequence in slow motion. Doctorow was trying to set up some grand global web that would ultimately coalesce but he overreaches and under delivers. The conclusion of the book is the very definition of anticlimax.I enjoyed "Down and Out in the Magic Kingdom" and haven't read any others of his since. This book was a disappointment. Can't recommend it for anyone young or old.
3 For the Win started with a 5-star rating. Anyone who plays online MMO's will be hooked within the first two chapters. The concept of the gamers taking over the industry from the "slum lords" was very cool. As the book dragged on, however, the characters piled up and the narration flip-flopped between plot and textbook. When Doctorow injected Economics for Dummies lectures into the middle of the storyline, he didn't even give them a voice. It was pure, passive lecture, with no character or plot attached. I felt a little violated by this, and indignant. Doctorow broke a few unspoken rules by preaching from the sidelines.I really enjoyed the first handful of characters -- mainly the gamers. But then reporters and protesters and factory workers were thrown into the mix. It was too much to keep track of. I kept wondering where Matthew was and what happened to Leonard. It got to the point where not only was the storyline out of control but it became unbelievable. Gamers protesting? Gamers complaining that they don't get fair wages and benefits for sitting on their butts pounding a game controller? Get real. If you can make money farming gold, great. But if you want fair wages and benefits, get a friggin' real job. I mean, I'm a gamer, but even I was horrified that the gamers thought they deserved to protest alongside miners and factory workers who worked ungodly hours and risked their lives. It was all to prove a point. To get teenagers, I guess, to understand economic theory. It was a low blow, and absolute destruction to what was potentially a great book. Doctorow could have made twice as much money if he'd have written a separate textbook and kept the preaching out of this one.
2 I thought this would be an excellent book but Andrew Gross just did not do his research properly on mental health. Also - perhaps it was a mistake in the audio CD - but at once point someone with bipolar throughout the book becomes a schziprehnic and then back to bipolar.The majority of the book is about the wealthy, healthy, clever guy who rescues his younger brother and family are a regular basis. When his nephew becomes sucidial he gets put in in-patient treatment where the medically magically transforms him to some variant of "normal" over the course of a weekend. If you know anything about psychiatric medication you'll know how long it takes to work and how difficult it is to get the correct medication and dose for someone to stabalize after withdrawing from previous medication.The latter part of the book starts to challenge some of the stereotypes from the rest of the book but not that well, and the investigation "Jay" conducts is far more interesting at this point. I won't be bothering with Andrew Gross again, I didn't like his characters and not enough plot development was done here.
5 Having never read his books before I was pleasantly surprised and thoroughly enjoyed the book.It was full of suspense and thrills which kept me turning the page and I could not put the book down until I was finished.I am now a fan !
4 Had me riveted and up late first Andrew Cross solo book have read definitely on favorite list is easy to read with a great plot
5 Well...I'm 75 almost..and have read 2-3 books a week since I was a small child.  So, to say that I am &#34;MOST ENTERTAINED&#34; by Mr. Gross is a big statement to present!  I'm well educated..and for fun read novels!  Thanks Mr. Gross for keeping this &#34;more matured man&#34; entertained!  I look forward to the next, the next and the next!
4 I thought I was taking a risk buying the book of an author I had never read before.  But how pleasantly surprised I was.  This book kept me enthralled from start to finish, with many twists and turns along the way.  Jay Erlich was a wonderful character who clearly loved his brother's family despite past conflicts, and was determined to find out the truth behind the death of his nephew. A great read.
2 The story is told by Jay Handler, a successful doctor, who flies across the US to be with his brother Charlie after his nephew kils himself.  Evan was 21, suicidal and bipolar, so it seems a straightforward case for the police.  However gradually Jay starts to think that perhaps there was more to Evan's death than everyone has realised and that the death may be connected to events in Charlie's past, when Charlie spent time with a Charles Manson like cult in the 1970s.I have read and enjoyed other books by this author, but this one was a disappointment.  The story develops without much pace or tension and at times becomes repetitive - for example, one character recognising and saying exactly the same things in one chapter as another had two chapters earlier.  The author also spells out everything out for us, not giving the reader any chance to make connections for themselves.  He even abandons the first person narrative for occasional chapters to make sure that we're not missing out on what anyone is thinking.It's an easy read, in the Harlan Coben/Greg Hurtwiz/Linwood Barclay mould, but not as good.  No big twists (except perhaps at the very end), no plausibility, no urge to keep reading.This book has been published in the US under the title "Eyes Wide Open".  It is the same book.
5 One of Andre Gross real thrillers, full of suspense and a very good story.Much enjoyed, and would recommend most of his books if you want a roller coaster ride.
3 Again, not a bad book, just quite predictable.  Many of these authors just put books out to put books out and that is too bad because the quality just doesnt stand up.
2 I'm happy to admit devouring Sherlock Holmes, Travis McGee, Bony and Philip Marlowe novels when I was younger, with James Ellroy, Sam Reaves and more recently Brett Battles just some of the other excellent crime writers I have had the pleasure to read.And I'll happily rate James Patterson as pretty good, so when I saw his "a sexy-as-hell thriller" praise on the dust jacket of "Killing Hour", I figured Andrew Gross must be an OK author.What I missed was the inside dust jacket, which notes that James Patterson and Andrew Gross have co-authored at least 5 books.  Which downgrades Patterson's "sexy-as-hell" comment somewhat, because he can hardly claim any degree of impartiality in his assessment of Gross' style and plotting if they are writing buddies.Unfortunately, Patterson is clearly the better author because "Killing Hour" was a dud of a book for me.What made it a dud?  First up, the prologue and opening chapter are third person perspective (to set the scene I guess) then it drops into a first person narrative.  It was jarring and it seemed unimaginative not to have the first person narrative pick up the pieces in retrospect so that we could journey with him.  Then, at what feel like random moments, a chapter will drop back to third person perspective.  I guess the intent is to move things along and make sure "we" didn't miss anything, but it is just so clunky.Second, the prose was pedestrian.  "I barely slept that night. I tossed and turned for most of it, my blood racing".  That's pretty much the level all the way through.  It is not incisive or engaging or even deep and meaningful.  Just a drone of descriptive dross, like when my cell phone reads my emails aloud for me.  There is no emotion, it is all mechanical, procedural, and even the characters inner voices are from a very shallow pool of introspection.  The chapters are generally really short, and I kept having an echo thought that Gross was writing this with a movie playing in his head, as it seems more like a fleshed out screenplay than a gripping yarn.Lastly, and crippling for me, it just was not that interesting.  Master storytellers can take the most banal topic and imbibe it with verve and vigour.  Gross sadly goes the other way, taking a reasonable premise and slowly deflating it.  I lost my desire to find out what happened early on, and from there on in it was a slug-fest to complete each page and get to the end.  And once there, the personal 'revelation' so clumsily exposed was very much "yeah, and...?"  There was no journeyman; we did not compellingly connect with the human condition; it was not a topical 'greed is bad' rant against our Western culture or a 'native knows best' diatribe; and our crusader of the mean streets was sufficiently emasculated that even the traditional "Man With No Name" element was missing.  In fact, the archetypal characters that provide writers with such a powerful shorthand to our emotions were pretty much muted all the way through.Maybe Gross' other novels (and esp. the ones with Patterson) are better.  I hope so, because my advice is to spend your money on the likes ofJohn D. Macdonald,Brett BattlesorCharles Willefordbefore you spend it on this novel.
3 The Killing Hour is a page turner and is based on the life experience of the author but you should be careful and NOT buy 'Eyes wide open' because it is the same book but with a different title. I wonder why this happened
2 I've read the first four of Robert Low's Oathsworn Series and found them to be bleak, despairing, with one dimensional characters, and suffer a lack of depth.  Anyone written with any feeling (and there's very few of them believe me) dies.  While the words are on the page the books are written with no pause or space to allow the reader to feel the story, its like being on a Ferris wheel that never stops.  Just one miserable violent brutal event after another.  How anyone could compare Low's writing with that of Bernard Cornwall's and Judson Roberts hasn't read these two wonderful storytellers.
5 This latest addition in the Oathsworn series is excellent; if possible, it is more grim and gritty than any of its predecessors.Orm and his Oathsworn face an old foe, fired up with (justifiable) rage and bent on revenge, who burn their home and chase them from their land. The heroes must travel into a relatively unknown corner of Europe in a river voyage that evokes the shades of "Apocalypse Now", culminating in a struggle vaguely reminiscent of the Spartans at Thermopylae.The Oathsworn hobnob with Viking Age celebrities (Sigrith the Haughty, Pallig of Jomsborg, and Eirik the Victorious, to name a few) but the best part of the book is the central characters. The few of the old favorites who managed to survive four prior Oathsworn adventures - including the grandmother-quoting, parable-laden Red Njal; the alternatingly sweet and ferocious Botolf, and Orm himself, guilt-ridden and tortured by the past. The wonderfully nihilistic Finn returns in all his Odinic, grim fury - and we finally learn the hidden reason for his fearlessness and recklessness. Young (but not as young as in The White Raven) Crowbone, not yet the Olaf Trygvason of saga, makes a return as a gangly youth. Hanging over all their heads is Orm's oath offering a terrible sacrifice if Odin spares his men and their families, an offer on which the one-eyed god is sure to collect.Robert Low strips away the magic and legend of the sagas to reveal the Viking Age for what it was.  In The Prow Beast, the Oathsworn are revealed for all that they are - men mostly inclined to do good, farm the land, be good neighbors and friends, but capable of acts of savagery and cruelty that can be difficult for even the most jaded readers to reconcile. Constantly wavering between their noble and barbaric natures, they are emblematic of age in which they live.
4 I really liked the whole series, I look forward to another installment. (I dislike the minimum word requirement for the reviews)
5 First posted on Amazon.co.uk on 4 June 2011...and certainly one of the best authors (with Bernard Cornwell) writting about the Vikings. Both share the ability of making their characters come alive. As another commentator mentioned, it is indeed ruthless, brutal and bloody, but then that is exactly the reputation that Scandinavian warriors had at the time. Contrary to what others seem to have indicated, this is not the last of the series (I very much hope that more are coming!).
4 I've really enjoyed this series, but I have one complaint.  Too many main characters die.  I know this is supposed to reflect the times, but it's also a novel, and you need a stronger core than two or three.
1 I've enjoyed many viking novels----mostly by Cornwell.  This was poorly written and not worth the little time I gave it.
5 Another gripping saga tale from the Viking lord Low. First Orm's outpost is assaulted: no spoilers, but chill, sweat suspense. The second stage of the yarn is another journey. Low's journeys are ever engaging - being great describing of the Dark Age landscape and custom, and also the journeys of the mind. Buy it! And Jarl Low, when begets you another saga?!?
5 This was a great fourth book in an excellent series!  This is definitely one to start at the beginning with The Whale Road and work your way up to book 4.  What's left of the Oathsworn are back under the continued leadership of Jarl Orm Rurickson, The Bear Slayer, Trader, and finder of treasure hoards.  The hard oath of the brotherhood takes its toll on the life-expectancy of its members, and there's new crew, a new Fjord Elk, and naturally a new fool's errand, all haunted by people and circumstances of the past.Every book in this series is a fast page-turner that keeps you involved and anxious to discover how events unfold.  The Oathsworn new and old are full of colorful Viking-talk that historically accurate or not is certainly entertaining.  Low does an excellent job of crafting unique landscapes that covers great distances through the medieval world.  I was very impressed with his use of relatively unknown tribes and clans, in this case in the old Amber Road and Oder River region separating Germany and Poland in the 10th Century.As has been the case in the previous books, Low weaves in a number of big historical characters who mingle almost seamlessly with his fictional ones.  Olaf Tryggvasson, Queen Sigrith, and the Jomsviking Lord Pallig Tokeson, among others.  If I had one grievance with the story it was probably Low's portrayal of the Jomsvikings in general, which was interesting but I was personally disappointed.  His inclusion of Magyars certainly made up for it.Unfortunately, aside from Finn suggesting there was good raiding to be had in England, there is no hint at a 5th installment and it looks unlikely after a visit to his website revealed this: "It (The Prow Beast) will be followed by the "Kingdom of Scotland" series, set in the time of Robert the Bruce and William Wallace, which I am writing now."  Its just as well; not sure Orm and his crew had much more left in them.  Given the abominable history portrayed in the film "Braveheart", which seems to have infected universal unconsciousness, just shy of reading the actual history I have faith Mr. Low may set the record a lot straighter.  I look forward to it.I highly recommend this entire series.  Enjoy!!
5 Good Book.  Author does a great job of betraying the human characteristics of the main players.
4 First, to be honest, Robert Low's Oathsworn series is my favorite group of novels, period. Given that level of anticipation, I want to re-read Crowbone to see if my slight, and it is slight, disappointment was due to my own expectations vs. the novel itself.  It was very good, and does a nice job of showing the maturation of Crowbone into what he would one day be.  The Game of Kings is clearly not for the faint of heart.  Part of the challenge for me was the limited role played by the Oathsworn characters I had truly come to love.  I greatly enjoyed the parts they did play, but these were also my favorite parts of the book.  Mr. Low could definitely make a living writing about wise women/volvas, this to me is where his descriptive powers really shine!  I would love to read his historical version of any of the Lothbrokson's!  Crowbone and his supporters, other than the original Oathsworn, are great, dark character studies, and dark is saying something compared to Finn Horsehead, and I enjoyed his internal struggles and how he rationalized his own choices.  As always, Crowbone's fire stories are great as well, it just did not, and perhaps this is inevitable in a "transition" book, connect as much with me as earlier entries in the series.  I will continue to buy, and read, any Oathsworn installments and recommend them to friends, as it was still as good or better than any other author's recreation of the Viking times.
4 I enjoyed the whole series by Robert Low, lots of action and plausible circumstances..with a little bit of mystical magic thrown in. Look forward to his next book.
4 At last, Robert Low has gone back to "doing" Vikings, and this one is a treat because it is different. The previous volumes of the Oathsworn were rather focused on Orm and Finn, his right-hand man. We do get to see a bit of them, but they tend to take second place. This is because this book is mostly about the early years as a young warlord of Olaf Tryggvasson, who would become what he is shown to want so much in the book: one of the most fearsome Battle Kings of Norway.One of the most interesting features of this book is the drawing of Olaf's somewhat complex character. Deep down, he is scarred by his youth during which his parents were slaughtered and he was made into a slave. He knows fear but overcomes it through force of will, bravery and ever recklessness. He also becomes cunning, cruel, ferocious and rather unscrupulous, to say the least. By and large, he is anything but a "nice" character, but then he would not survived very long if he had been. Another related feature which I found most interesting is the implicit and explicit comparisons that Low has his readers make. If you have read the other books in the series (or even if you haven't for that matter), the contrasts and similarities between Orm and Olaf are striking, with the former being wary, although not afraid, of the latter's recklessness and somewhat paranoid behaviours, whereas Olaf becomes little by little to becomes colder and less human.Another great feature is the depiction of some of the other characters that we come across, and who seem and feel real, regardless of what they really were like, and this is something that we will probably never know anyway. These include the old Viking King of Dublin and his sons, with Sigurd who would be among the warlords defeated at Clontarf more than 30 years later, without forgetting his wife of whom we will probably learn quite a bit more in Robert Low's next instalment. We also have the last son of Eric BloodAxe, his fearsome which of a mother and his two henchmen, including a psychopath of a youth who happens to be a very gifted killer. The fictitious characters are just as good and the historical ones with all of them coming to life.A third (or is the fourth?) element which I particularly liked was the kind of guided tour through the Viking World of the 10th century that Robert Low takes us through in this volume. All is accurate and well-researched, at least as far as I can tell, from the last stronghold of the Khazars on the Black Sea, to Norway, Ireland, the Isle of Man, the last stronghold of the Picts and the Jarl of the Orkneys. The quest for Odin's Daughter, a magical Battleaxe that brings both power and ultimate doom to all of its owners, feels like a Viking version of the Quest of the Grail, with all its treachery and violence. The final climax, up in "Finmark" and then in the Orkneys, is as brutal and violent as you can expect and rather well done, even if not entirely a surprise. It also includes the hint that we will be having more of the Oasthsworn in future as Orm and his men sails to Ireland to attempt to win back his wife.All is all, a superb read on the same high standard as all of the previous books in the series. I lapped it all up as fast as possible, loved every minute of it, and I am still asking for more...
3 Mr. Low is a superb author--both the Oathsworn Series and The Lion series have had some outstanding books (see my reviews). That being said, Crowbone was a bit of a letdown. Unlike the Lion Series, there is no actual historic arc being followed in the Oathsworn series. Although there are historical figures sprinkled throughout, the story arc itself is entirely fictional and it is getting a bit shopworn. Another trek, more people being at the same place/same time, more close calls/saves etc, etc, etc. Been there, done that--additionally Crowbone, unlike Orm, is not a particularly likable character.It seems as though the Oathsworn series will continue--not sure I will be reading anymore.
5 I couldn't stop reading this series with just the first book.They were all great and I was thrilled to identify an author that was new to me whose work I really enjoyed.This last book in the series wasn't quite as rewarding to read as the earlier ones, possibly because of the flawed personality the author gave the main character, but nevertheless I will read more books by Robert Low.
5 Low is the Sergio Leone of historical fiction. A bag full of characters as ugly as Leone's spaghetti western casts. Leone and Low are masters of suspense, period detail and a darn good fight. This is the sixth installment of the Low's 'Oathsworn' series but probably his best. He is far more imaginative yet historically convincing then most in the genre. Robert, when are you writing another saga tale, or three!?!?!
5 Oathsworn is a series I had to buy and read volume by volume--sort of like watching an entire TV series rather than a single episode.  Low is wonderful writer, great detail, great characters.  Since then I;ve been tackling several other great Viking series, but it started with Low.
2 Let me start off by saying I loved the previous 4 books in the series and Mr Low's writing was superb. In this book, the 5th in the series, the author has a good tale and the opportunity to progress a character to the forefront of the series.I felt the author tried to weave a complex tale of intrigue, double crosses and plot twists- a game of kings. It falls short and it came across as contrived and forced and not a free flowing saga to be told around a fire.Hopefully there will be another story for Crowbone.  I will give it another try.
4 Crowbone is a good story but is nearly independent from the rest of the Oathsworn saga.  Orm and Finn are minor characters, just as Crowbone is a minor character in the White Raven.  Having said that, it was still a very enjoyable read.  It is hard to find good original Viking stories and Mr. Low does an exceptional job filling that genre.I enjoyed seeing Crowbone come into his own, he has been my favorite character in the Oathsworn saga, and I love his campfire stories.  The author makes sure to have him tell several good ones in this book.  And of course there are a couple of axes to foreheads.While not my favorite book of the series it is a good addition and well worth the read, and the author seems to have hit his stride in style as the flow of this installment seems much more smooth than some of his earlier offerings.
5 This is rather different than the previous Oathesworn books but is still very enjoyable. Without any spoilers it ends in a way where Low could either follow Orm or Crowbone or both in the next novel.
5 Though set in the future, isn't so far out that there are no similarities to today. It's just like taking a couple of steps into the future and recognizing everything, which is great, because it makes it so much more real.Police procedure, thriller, futuristic touches, villains to turn your stomach, a society that is a little worrying LOL.The story is awesome, if a little... let's put it this way, Stuart McBride has a way of making you cringe a little inside when nasty things happen LOL. All the scarier when his writing makes you visualize it so clearly that you feel as though you're in the room watching it unfold.
4 First Line: There's blood everywhere.I've been known to warn folks that, if they have a low tolerance for gore, they might want to give MacBride's Logan McRae mystery series a miss. That warning would go quadruple for halfhead, a novel set in Glasgow, Scotland in the near future. It's a future firmly based in today's events, but I pray that it never comes to pass. Here's the synopsis from the back of the book:"They call them halfheads: Convicted criminals, surgically mutilated and lobotomised by the State, then sent out do menial jobs in the community so everyone will know what happens when you break the law. There are no appeals, no reprieves, and no one ever comes back. Until now."Dr Fiona Westfield, one of the most prolific serial killers Glasgow has ever seen, is waking up. Surrounded by blood and death and darkness. And she wants revenge."William Hunter has risen through the ranks since putting Westfield away; now he's Assistant Network Director, in charge of tech-crimes and police actions. Then a routine murder investigation uncovers an appalling conspiracy."The vast connurb blocks on Glasgow's deprived south side are about to explode: eleven years ago the VR riots killed millions - now someone wants to start them all over again. And Will is being dragged back into a past he desperately wants to forget."See what I mean? This world isn't pretty. Not even close. It's a world of Compressed Urban Habitation in which as many people as possible are crammed in as small a living space as possible. It's a world where the masses are kept tractable by continuous feeds of VR-- virtual reality. There are high tech weapons and high tech transportation, and lots of crime.Even without reading about this book on MacBride's website, I would've known that this is his first novel, and that the Logan McRae mysteries that I love came later. Why? The plot and the action are very good, but the gore factor is so over the top that one scene in particular made me ill (and I'm not squeamish). The characters show depth, but MacBride's trademark twisted, dark sense of humor feels as though it's slipped a gear; it just doesn't quite work. Perhaps it was because the tone of the book was so unrelentingly grim and horrific, but I barely cracked a smile at the humorous bits, let alone laughed out loud.Although the various elements don't always work smoothly, I did find halfhead fascinating for its view of what the future may hold, and for the simple fight of good against evil. However, if you're not in the mood for a huge slab of tough, extremely rare steak, I'd leave this one alone and stick with MacBride's Logan McRae books.
5 I really like the books of Stuart Macbride and this one did not disappoint.  A very interesting concept, good plot and interesting characters.  I hope there's a sequel.
2 I am a great fan of MacBride and have read all of his other books but this is a disappointment. When crime fiction writers try their hand at scifi they often disappoint (witness Walter Mosley's attempts) and McBride is no exception. The story has McBride's trademark gruesome episodes but his creation of a future milieu and his plotting let the story down.
5 The usual gore and thrill present in Stuart MacBride's books is definitely present in this book. It has a great plot, with all the twists and turns that MacBride usually provides.
1 A sordid, unpleasant book. I expected better from Stuart MacBride.It isn't worth wasting any more words on it. I don't know if I'llbother with any more of his books
3 I understand this is MacBride's first novel.  It's his first full-length foray into science fiction, in any case.  I don't think MacBride really figured out what he was doing until about 3/4 of the way into the novel.  It wasn't bad prior to that, and there's lots of blood and gore for those who like that sort of thing (I do).  However, sometimes MacBride's enthusiasm for gore rises(?) sinks(?) to the point where the prose is worthy of the Bulwer-Lytton prize: "The shuttle hit him hard enough to spread him all over the tunnel like pt&eacute;"Yes, I'll read a sequel should there be one.  Yes, it will probably be better than this novel.  No, this novel wasn't so awful that it's merely giggle-worthy or unbearable.  It's simply not the author's best.
5 Macbride is unbelievable.  I'm not a sci-fi fan but I had to read this after Blind Eye.  What a great read.  It's shorter than the typical DS Mcrae book, but it literally flies non-stop at a breakneck speed.  You cannot put this book down, albeit I had to to go to work, etc.  The characters are well developed; the villians are... chilling in their evilness.  The book is a well crafted police procedural in every sense, but in the future.  Detail is typical in Macbride's style.  What's great about this book is there are many terms that you can only figure out by the context - no glossory of what a bacon buttie is and the like.  The ending is mindboggling and that's all I'll say.  I loved this book.  I only hope Stuart Macbride will read this review.  DON'T MISS IT!
5 I have to say I bought this book and didnt read it for a long time, and only got round to it a few months ago, and when I did, I was gripped. I am a squeamish person, and won't watch horror or even read it, but I managed to overcome it because the plot was so slick and page turnery. it is written very much like a screen play, and you can visualise the set pieces very easily, like a sort of uber violent "Minority Report" with Scottish people. In style and gore content, it is like Taggart meets Michael Marshall Smith, with fans of MMS I am sure enjoying this. Like MMS book, "Spares", you would wonder if film makers could bring some of the more extreme scenes of Halfhead to the big screen, but all in all, this is a superior near future dystopian book, and it would be great to see some more.
5 I loved this book. I can't wait for part 2!! Please write it now!!!! I've been waiting. It was a wild and weird concept and yes, gory, but excellently written. A great plot even with all the gruesome stuff.
5 Reads even better the second time; grand science fiction and gritty cop work combined. Let's hope he does more sci-fi....
5 I'm 63 and have just discovered Stuart MacBride.  Wow!  I loved this book.  It was hard to put it down long enough to sleep.  Any and everyone would enjoy this.
4 "Halfhead" marks the first venture of Scottish author, Stuart MacBride, into what his publishers seem to want to call science fiction, but is probably more properly classed as science fantasy, or rather future-world thriller -- something of a major departure for an author best known for his Logan McRae series of crime novels, all based in contemporary Aberdeen, a gritty crime series set in the Granite City. (eg "Blind Eye")  Regardless of its correct classification, this new book is written in MacBride's trademark no-holds barred mix of blunt prose and colloquial brogue, which makes for a fast and riveting read with the action fairly spinning off the page. It is also a gruesome and gory read, with graphic depictions of almost non-stop and gratuitous violence from the opening sentence, right up until the final climactic shoot-out. What with that, and the endless string of four-letter obscenities flowing from the mouths of the characters, one can almost smell the Hollywood producers lining up to develop this book for the big screen.The story is set in a Glasgow "not too far in the future", although not a Glasgow that many would recognise as having much in common with the current city, except for the dialect, the appearance of current district and street names, and the ubiquitous presence of Irn Bru - just one of numerous Scottish in-jokes which pepper the prose.  The plot is well worked out and with sufficient threads to sustain interest through the violence and blood-shed, and to keep most readers on the edge of their seats throughout, although it is obvious from very early in the book that there are only two possible endings for the book. It is to MacBride's credit that he manages to conceal until almost the very last page just which he'll finally opt for. The end, when it does come, is somewhat abrupt and anti-climactic and also ambiguous as to whether or not it completes, author and publisher clearly keeping their options open for a sequel.There will undoubtedly be a sequel; MacBride's characters are too likeable and re-usable not to reappear, while the villain of the piece, like Thomas Harrris' Hannibal Lecter ("Hannibal Lecter Trilogy"), is altogether too grotesquely fascinating to be allowed to feature in only one book. Regardless of whether MacBride wants to continue this series or not, I suspect the public -- and therefore the publishers -- will demand more. I am sure that, in spite its many flaws, this book will rocket into the best-sellers list in no time. It is a pity that books such as this will undoubtedly out-shadow the same ideas much better done elsewhere (Sheri S. Tepper's "The Visitor" springing most immediately to mind) but that's just the way the world is, I guess.If you're into light and frothy prose recounting grim and gruesome events at a break-neck pace in a bleak and unpleasant future, and if you don't mind a lot of foul language and a fair collection of silly ideas vwipping past, give this book a try. I suspect you'll not be able to put it down until you've finished it.
5 This is one of my favorite books. The illustrations are great, and even though the story is more for an older age group I read it with my toddler and she loves the pictures. Not too long, funny and very cute!
5 I enjoyed reading this book to my 4 yr old daughter who enjoyed it too.  Very bright photos.  Not a rocket science book, just entertaining and fun bright photos.
5 Marjorie the cow doesn't feel special.  She can't ride a bike like the other cows. ("Cows can't ride bikes!" said the child on my lap.)  The barnyard chickens hatched up a plan, and the next morning, Marjorie announced that she had laid an egg. ("Cows don"t lay eggs!" said the child in my lap.)  Suddenly, with the appearance of the egg, Marjorie was special.  But what will happen when the egg hatches?A hilarious picture book for ages 3-7 -- and fun for the adult reader, too!
5 We picked this book up from the library and we really enjoy it.  Great new words (astonished, cunning) that my 4yo son is not used to hearing/using.  Great colors and pictures.  Fun story.  It's one of the few books that he wants me to read to him every night.  I'm not on Amazon looking to buy it and others from the same author :)
5 A cute memorable book for children learning to read. My daughter loves the humor and drawings.  Highly recommended.  Even I love this book!
5 A cow that lays an egg?  We picked this book up because of the silly title alone. The illustrations are a riot (like the page showing cows riding bicycles and doing handstands)!  Somehow Marjorie the cow lays a egg, spotted mysteriously black & white just like a Holstein cow.  The other cows are suspicious.  The chickens ain't talkin'.  The farmer hams it up in front of the news media. Sure, it's the Scam of the Century, but it's a great story about friends (The chickens) helping out a friend (Marjorie) when she was feeling low.  And the ending, when the egg finally hatches, will "crack" you up!
5 I purchased this book to use in my theater class. It was recommended to me by another teacher. The first time I read it, I thought it was cute and nothing more, but the more I used it in class, the more I grew to love it.First of all, the kids adore it. I also noticed this was a great choice to help the kids as they learn to predict what is going to happen next. For dramatizing, the book offers a lot of opportunities to portray different types of creatures, and we were able to give several lines of dialogue to everyone.The artwork is fun and quirky. The kids commented a lot on the drawings.The story itself is fun and provides a lot of opportunity to talk about such subjects as feeling special, inclusion, friendship, etc. But it is definitely NOT heavy-handed at ALL.The ending will make your kids laugh and they will want to read it again and again.
5 I thoroughly enjoyed the entire book. The story is based on a girl who had a hidden secret long forgotten.The amnesia was preservation of something her mind could not accept. The plot, characters and how the story unfolded was beautifully written. I would love to read more books by this author.
5 This book is about Mandy  who used to stay at her Aunt and Uncle's place till she was 13 and than stop going.10 years later her Granddad is very ill and is dying and she goes back to the house that she used to visit all the time. she has no memories of the place, and than Mandy slowly starts to remember what had happen to her,Her family had covered up what had happen to her and slowly Mandy finds out what went on in that house and the big cover up.With granddad being so ill and in pain it brings the family back together after the 10 years of not speaking to each other,The secrets of the pass do come back and Mandy is very cross about what she found outThis book is very sad and any one that has cared for someone dying until there are gone will know how Mandy feels, I was in tears for most of the book as I had nursed a person 24/7 till he passed away, there is a funny bit with the red lava light but you will find out about that
5 Wow!  was my gut reactionHow do you review on a subject so hurtful to the heart?  You try to go impersonal right? Cathy once again has done an outstanding job as an author.  She gets into the heart of the matter without any qualms. This book is about recalled memories.  Mandy was abused traumatically as a young adolescent and had buried the memory deep within herself.  Her family also hushed the memory.  Wouldnt talk about it and covered it up very neatly.  When Mandy agrees to help nurse her ailing grandfather at the house where the traumatic abuse took place she starts getting flashbacks and doesnt remember what happened and thinks she is going crazy.  But as they come more often she is starting to realize that something very bad took place at that home.  To find out more, please consider reading this book.
5 Just love her work.  Cannot wait until the next book of hers comes on sale.  Please do not keep me waiting too long
5 Good story. Good author.  Good read.  Other than some some of the swear words that is a turn off for me.
4 It was a good read. Clean through out the book. Kept your interested. How a family can come together. Surprise ending.
4 cathy glass always keep you reading and in return you purchase her next book. it is the copassion she expresses that is absolutely incredible.
5 Another great read by Cathy Glass! I can't stop reading her books once I have started until the very end. I have bought Hidden to read next after that I will read her next one due to be released April 20th and have already pre-order it. Don't know what I will read after that cuz that will be all of her books except for Lucy's story which I am looking forward to reading as soon as it's available for my kindle fire .
5 Really exposes the damages hidden truths can cause.  It is better to confront problems as they occur, rather than trying to sweep them under the rug. To often, when the truth is revealed, it becomes much harder to make things right.
5 I have read and loved all of Cathy Glass's books! I prefer to read true stories but decided to read this since I loved all Cathy's books. This was a wonderful, suspenseful book! I had a hard time putting it down! One thing after another was reaves led as you read! I recommend it to everyone! Thanks for another great book Cathy! Keep writing, I've run out of books to read! :)
4 Book was well written, I felt the girls pain. It was also something I could relate to. There was a conclusive follow up at the end, didnt keep you wondering.
5 Good book that vividly paints the lengths families go to in keeping devastating secrets. Cathy is an extremely gifted writer
5 IT WAS WONDERFUL COULD NOT PUT IT DOWN IT HAS A LOT OF FAITH AND LOVE YOU HAVE TO READ IT
4 Good book.  It was kind of drawn out but it was a good read.  Really should make us think about what a person has to go through when they are violated.  It is more like the victim is trying to prove their innocence instead of the person that committed the crime.
5 This is a great book loved every story heart felt  very well written page turner love Cathy Glass books thank you
4 With all the stories in the news about sexual abuse of children, this is a new twist - and very heart-wrenching.  The secrecy that is imposed on children is terrible!
4 This was a wonderful read. I loved the way Cathy wrote it. The BEAUTIFUL places Mandy went, and the delicious foods made me so hungry. I was proud of the love she had for her grandparents
5 Very good book. It was different from her normal writings. I would definitely read this book again and again. I would also recommend it to anyone who has ever been abused.
5 As usual Cathy Glass has written another good book and also another tear jerker and a very sad story. Loved it.
5 I like true story's and this was a very good book. It was sad but I know this happens so many times that no one hears about. I certainly would recommend this book.
5 Very sad story!It awful to think that this goes on behind closedDoor! No One should ever be treated like thisThis book will give you ,the reader an idea what can go on behind closed doors!
5 This story had me turning pages as it was a good, tho sad in some places. It drew you in with all the characters. Thanks again Cathy!
4 This is a true story of Aisha who is a very busy person that all she does is work, she spots a ad in the personal page for people on there own to meet people. She soon met a Man called Mark.After a year of going out together there get married, and than there have a little girl,This book took a while to get into the story but once you did you where hooked and i was up till 1am to see what happen to Aisha and the children.Aisha has to cope with Mark temper and she blames herself for the temper and abuse that he gives her.One day she finds strength to do something about the way Mark has been treating her and The children, but i will let you read the book to find out
5 Another good one by this author. She gives you an honest look inside not only the world of fostering but the inside the world of the child and you see another side to the child that most would not ever see.
5 Cathy Glass always writes an honest account of her experience with children in her care. This is a sad, compasionate story of a little girl who relies on Cathy to safe her from her life.
5 I enjoyed this book. Cathy Glass is indeed a  very talented author. This is the first novel of hers that I have read and I enjoyed it very much.
3 I didn't enjoy this book anywhere near as much as I have enjoyed Cathy Glass's other books, I think it may have been one of her earlier books and her writing I feel, has greatly improved, I just didn't get into the story the same as I normally do although it was  pretty tragic. But that's just my opinion
4 Run Mommy Run was a very sad but uplifting story. It tells people that there is always a way out if you need one and there is a light at the end.
5 As a fan of Ms. Glass' books about her foster care charges, this book, although a novel, will draw you in till the end. Well done!
5 This is a book that really tells what happens to the kids when the abuse is going on around them. It really hurts the children and they do remember it no matter what their ages are.
5 This one is in a slightly different vein to Cathy's other books but it was still very enjoyable and I couldn't put it down. :)
5 This was a bit different as I kept wondering when the kids would be taken to the foster care giver. Great read and now on to the next one. Don't ever stop writing but most of all never stop helping the kids who need you the most...bless you
4 This story really kept me intrigued! During most parts I couldn't put it down for long. Good read just felt the ending was a tad bit abrupt and kind if open ended.
3 a good book overall but too long for the actual story i reckon, it could have been cut in half for all the useless bits
4 Poor woman, she really loved this guy and this is how he treats her for years very sad but very good story.....
4 I enjoyed this story. I would recommend it if you enjoy reading Cathy Glass' books. her books are easy reading.
5 I enjoy Cathy Glass books. This one is a novel based on a true story. Aisha is a hard-working traditional girl looking for a good man to keep company with, and she finds Mark through a dating agency .At first he seems charming and attentive, but for no obvious explanation, after the birth of their daughter, Mark turns on Aisha. Aisha is caught in a world of abuse and neglect and struggles to keep her children clothed and fed. Her link to her parents is broken and she has no job, car or friends. One night, when her life is in danger, Aisha takes a bold step and rescues herself and her kids, but at a high price. Aisha eventually recovers, physically and emotionally. One wonders why her parents did not intervene, but apparently their culture forbids this. One also has to ask why Aisha did not see the signs the reader did, of a narcissistic OCD man who wants complete control over her. I know it is difficult for women to get out of abusive relationships but I think Aisha was intelligent enough to get help- but one can't help but feel great sympathy for this woman who is based on a real person. Suspenseful and well-written.
3 I was really excited to hear about this book. I'm not hugely into science fiction, but this sounded like a really cool adventure to me. While I did enjoy it, I found the first 200 or so pages to drag along. I stuck with it hoping it would pick up and turn to more adventure then science, and it did.I had a hard time with some of the scientific stuff, and skipped over  parts of the two or three lectures, because really, it was just over my head. I thought it was great to include some illustrations of a few of the creatures, as the description really didn't help me picture them. I thought one of the most important species in the book wasn't described well enough, and I'm still not sure what it looks like. I'm picturing something along the lines of the blue monster in monsters inc(which I in fact, have never seen), so an illustration of that would have been great.Once the pace picked up, it was hard to put down. If I was basing the review on the last 150 pages, definitely 4 or 5 stars. But I had to take a couple points off for the slow start and because some of it was really predictable. The "bad guy" was just fumbling along trying to be the villain, and wasn't great at it, therefore it was easy to figure out what he might do. The characters are a little flat as others have mentioned, but I thought the inventive aspect of the island and things on it made up for that.Along the lines of Jurassic park, I think this would be a really enjoyable book for those who love sci-fi, and worth a try if you're like me, and mostly read dramas and thrillers. The author is going to get better and better with every book in my opinion, and this was a strong debut. Incredible imagination and really did a great job.
1 This book's characters behave like cliched cartoon characters. The dialogue is so shallow and lame that I had to stop reading it. Great premise, but I just don't get why this guy had to force such unrealistic, cardboard cut-out characters into it. Especially the TV producer, Cynthea. She was unbearable to me.
4 I found this to be a little dry in the beginning but as it progressed I couldn't put it down. A unique and entertaining book with twisted creatures and humans with different agendas. Not bad for a lazy-day read.
4 Fragment is a very inventive story, and has some intriguing twists on the classic Lost World theme. While it is an enjoyable read, it would have been a much better story if the author had paid more attention to plot details and continuity.When the creatures on the island are first discovered, somebody asks, not unreasonably, if they're from another planet. That question isn't answered at the time, and the  island's origin is never even mentioned again for 200 pages. If you didn't read the plot synopsis on the dust jacket, you'd wouldn't have any explanation of of what's going on until you get almost to the end of the book. And since most of the characters in the book are scientists, the fact that no one even questions where the whole alien ecosystem came from is a little odd, to say the least.This lack of continuity continues throughout the story. The US Navy immediately shows up and quarantines the island. But the book makes it clear that the outside scientific community considers the whole thing to be a publicity stunt put on for the sake of TV ratings. No one explores the interior, or does any examination of the island's ecology, until after the Navy shows up. So how did the US government know that the ecosystem on the island posed a threat to National Security? Yes, half a dozen people were killed by something on an unexplored island (if it wasn't all a hoax). That doesn't usually justify diverting a whole Aircraft Carrier Task Force, and airlifting umpteen millions of dollars worth of NASA equipment. Having the Navy take charge of the situation is a great plot device, but there's no explanation given for how they could have possibly known to get there so quickly.Similar holes in the plot abound. While the author apparently did his homework on Biology, he skimped on many other technical details. Overall, the book feels like one of those badly edited late night movies, where all the scenes that actually explained what's going on were considered boring and left on the cutting room floor. In a 350 page book, or even a novelization of a movie, you expect these things to be explained. Sadly, "Fragment" ignores these details completely, and the story is much weaker because of it.I will probably read the author's next book, but I really hope he gets a different editor, and does some serious research, while writing it.
5 I was very impressed with this book.  I love anything prehistoric and I bought this book because of the comparison to Jurassic Park.  I was not disappointed.  The plot moves quickly, the characters are easy to relate to and were real.  The action moves quickly.  It was very hard to put down!  I would recommend this book to anyone who likes a story with a scientific basis and still have a great storyline.  The research for this book seemed thorough and while the telling of theories was even written well.  Never felt like I was being "taught" what the science was.  The characters were never two dimensional.  I enjoyed reading this more that I enjoyed Jurassic Park.  The storyline goes into a totally different concept than JP and is actually more believable. Buy it!
2 I wanted to like this book.  I mean, with an island of 'monsters,' how could it possibly be bad?  Unfortunately, it is bad.  Very bad.  Having read several of the positive reviews posted here, one would think they were reading a different book than the one I read.  Sadly, they are not.For starters, this book is not a thriller.  If you can get through the first two-thirds of the novel, you do finally get some actual 'thriller' sequences.  Prior to that, you get only a few quick brief bursts of action while you slog through (literally) fifteen to twenty page sections of biology lessons and lectures (with scarcely any real relation to the actual events in the book).  Fahy seems intent on cramming the reader full of doctoral level science lessons with little care for the pacing of the novel.  This is partly the blame of the editors, who should have insisted on a tighter pacing for the book.Secondly, the characters have little depth.  And there are so many of them.  You spend fifty pages trying to figure out who they all are and then most of them end up dead thus introducing another round of characters who also mostly end up dead.  Character motivation is also one-dimensional.  Like a bad horror film, these characters create suspense only because they make incredibly stupid and unbelievable choices.  This story is not driven by the characters.  The characters are just a tool the author uses as a framework for the tedious science lectures and evolutionary speculation that he is clearly passionate about.Lastly, even when you get to the 'thriller' section at the end, it's all muddled and confusing.  One minute, the characters are intent on nuking 'monster island' because of the dangers to the outside world, and then they do a turnaround after discovering a certain type of creature.  Without spoilers, I'll just say that the villain scientist (despite his selfish motivation) is more right then wrong.  These good 'scientists' know far too little about the creatures they want to remove from the island to actually risk removing them.This book would have worked better as a speculative sci fi novel, which is really what it aspires to be.  It's no Jurassic Park, that's for sure.  The author brief states that Fahy is working on a sequel to Fragment.  This is one reader one wants no piece of it.  Unless you love lengthy detailed biological lectures, you're better off choosing from the many other books out there that are actually thrillers.  Try James Rollin's earlier novels.  Almost anything would be better than Fragment.
3 Not a bad yarn with a lot of action- to a point. I could live with most of the descriptions concerning the route the island took with its' flora and fauna as it was isolated from the rest of the world. But finding intelligent life living in a tree, communicating with them, loving them, and bringing them home was a real stretch.  Still not a bad page turner and I just purchased the next book in the series.  I guess I never learn a lesson.
4 This book is extremely effective as both suspense and adventure.  I bet film makers are already in the planning stages.What more perfect setting for our times than a reality show of exploring scientists happening upon a sort of Monster Island -- an island that has a different evolution than the rest of the world, creating perfect predators.As our heroes (and heroine) explore, the question is always, who will live and who will die?  And then, can this ecosystem coexist with ours?  Will it have to be destroyed, or will it destroy us.This is a well written book, even with the many stereotypic characters.  While the characters were rather stock characters, they were well done and the reader cares about what happens to them -- even the dog (and I won't say more about that in case I create a spoiler).The chapters are written in short bursts, and paced almost perfectly for movie scenes.  As I mentioned in the first paragraph, I'm sure this will be filmed.  So read it now and enjoy it.  This is the best of its type that I've read since Jurassic Park.
3 Readable. Suspense. Fast Action. Too much like Jurassic Park. Too much biology. One dimensional characters  - good vs. bad ones.
4 On a remote island untouched by man for millions of years, terrifying creatures lurk in an unfamiliar wilderness.  They are alien, but at the same time terrestrial.  A reality show sends scientists with various expertise to this island.  A mixture of scientific discovery and monster mayhem ensues.There are a number of reasons why this book is so good and only a few weaknesses.Good Stuff:1.  The plot is fast-paced.  From the first few pages, the reader is taken into the mysterious world of Hender's Island.  Every molecule is foreign and the monsters that dwell there are devious.  They are beyond anything experienced anywhere else on earth and their ferocity is nearly unbelievable.  Though the scientists in the book are seeking to study the environment of the island, they often find themselves in a white-knuckled attempt to survive.  The science and the horror become a good mix that leads to a true summer thriller.2.  The science is fun.  Whenever a science fiction book is truly successful, it mixes scientific ideas and real world application in an easy to understand and interesting way.  Fahy gets this mix right.  I never felt overwhelmed by the science yet I felt like he was feeding me a great amount of concepts in a very interesting way.Bad Stuff:1.  Character development is lacking.  The characters seem mostly the same and I had difficulty becoming attached to a few of them.  Though I wouldn't label it terrible, I also wouldn't call this a character driven book.2.  Slight Unbelievability.  There are a few places where elements of the story became simply unbelievable.  They, in my opinion, are rare and do not subvert the overall quality of the story, but were bothersome nonetheless.I write, "Not Quite Crichton, But Close" as my title, not because I think that this book isn't as good as Crichton, but to convey the truth that this book isn't as comparable to Jurassic Park as everyone says that it is.  There may be similarities (science fiction creatures, remote island, etc.), but it would be unfair to compare this book to such a classic, and then deride it because it didn't deliver what you were expecting.
4 Fragment: A NovelIf I were going to read just one book this summer this would be the one.If you like lots of science in your science fiction and lots of action don't miss this one.  The characters are interresting, even the protagonist.  There is a twist or two for those who want mystery.  THings to think about and new ways of looking at "monsters".  Lately there have been some good trys to come up with different ecothrillers but most have fallen short either in their science, their characters or their writing.I really haven't enjoyed one as much since "Jurassic Park".  One of those that you just can't find a place to stop books. (I didn't read it in one sitting like Jurassic Park but it was really hard to put aside)It will be interesting to see if Fahy can come up with another attention grabber like this one.  I for one will be looking forward to it.  Good luck Mr. Fahy.
5 I picked this book up when my fiance told me about a conversation he had with a lovely couple on a plane.  They were (if I am remembering correctly) Warren's aunt and uncle.  They told him about their nephew and the book he had written called Fragment.  I decided to hop online and see if I could find it.  I love books by Patrick Lee, Jeremy Robinson, Greig Beck, and others.  So, when I read the synopsis I thought Fragment sounded promising and in a similar vein.  I thoroughly enjoyed the imaginative speculation on how alternate evolution might play out in an isolated environment.  The pacing and action kept me up reading.  I was glad I took the time to find this novel.
3 This science fiction thriller takes a page or two from Michael Crichton and asks the question: "What happens to the evolutionary path if a tiny island were isolated from all other land masses for the last 500 million years?"  The answer is Warren Fahy's FRAGMENT.In response to a distress beacon, a seafaring American reality TV show sets its sights on Henders Island, a tiny speck of land in the South Pacific a thousand miles away from anywhere.  Upon arrival, the ship's crew and its team of photogenic scientists discover an amazing array of life forms so alien, the only answer to their existence is an alternate evolutionary path.  But not only are these creatures unbelievably strange, they're unbelievably deadly, having evolved into killing machines of startling efficiency, with a phenomenally accelerated reproductive cycle to compensate for their extremely short life expectancy. Said reproductive cycle is the most frightening thing about these creatures: if they were ever to leave their island, they would overrun the rest of the planet's ecosystem within weeks.As the scientists race against time to learn as much as they can about these murderous creatures and their strange and wonderful alternate ecology, the US military and its allies prepare to bomb the island out of existence.  Petty scientific infighting, conflicting ecological worldviews, and the hilarious effort to make TV ratings history move the story along at a breakneck pace.Although his character development is barely two-dimensional -- and one or two characters are so unpleasant that I was actively hoping they'd get eaten -- Fahy tells an entertaining plot-driven story.  The pacing is lightning fast: so fast, in fact, that the reader barely notices the somewhat improbable leaps of logic.  There's too much gore for my taste, and the constant name-dropping of various brands of equipment or apparel can be annoying.  And, while I'm not a scientist by any means, I expect Fahy has stretched the suspension of disbelief for this premise to its breaking point.This isn't to say I didn't enjoy the novel.  I did, very much, even through the "ewww" moments, and even though I saw the major plot twist coming a mile away.  FRAGMENT is a good summer vacation novel: fast, fun, and even somewhat thought-provoking.I believe genre novels just like this are necessary in any literate society.  If a "literary" novel such as...umm, Mistry's A FINE BALANCE, let's say...is a box of Godiva dark chocolate, FRAGMENT is a Milky Way bar, and sometimes a Milky Way bar is the perfect choice.  If the reader is looking for the next great American novel, he needs to keep looking, but I'd recommend this to anyone looking to kill a few hours in the airport and on the plane.
3 How many ways can modern humans interact with strange beasts of ancient origin?  There's cloning, time travel, space travel to alternate Earths and of course, lost islands.  Numerous scientific problems are present here. How did the island escape the great cataclysms that nearly wiped out life on earth three times in the past 500 millions years?  Or, if evolution is a general phenomenon, why would it act in such a strange way on this one island?  And how can such a diverse multitude of creatures coexist with all we know about predators and prey and eventual outcomes?The weakest point concerns the arthropods could somehow evolved into an anthropomorphic state, instantly learning and speaking our language.  It's absurd. The historical allusion gets us off to a good start.  That is followed by the reality show and all its quirky happenings. What the book is missing is a central character, a firm base around which the tale can develop.  There are scientist of all stripes - a smart-ass, cynical publicity hound, an unassuming African American, a beautiful woman, etc along with media and political folks.  Not a lot of "character growth".  LOLThe human-like species that emerge in the end prove the biggest disappointment.  Their world view would be as different from ours as a spider's or extraterrestrial and their peaceful disposition contradicts all we know about the island.  Humorously, we're told that their ability to become invisible has kept them alive right after we read of creatures who attack by smell! And lest we forget, there's the shower scene where our new buddies blithely scrub before casually climbing into their first beds.On the plus side, the discussions of lie spans, sex and child bearing were extremely interesting and carried to their logical conclusion on the island.  The action was fast and continuous but nothing not seen in a hudred horror films.  My Grade - C
3 Fahy's novel explores the concepts of sexual reproduction and evolution in this entertaining thrill ride of a novel which finds a reality television show and crew finding a supposedly deserted island.  However, the island is teeming with predators that have evolved into bizarre lifeforms.  The crew is decimated and soon the government is involved, with some wanting to nuke the site from orbit (it's the only way to be sure) and some wanting to study the animals (? creatures) for scientific posterity.
3 This is a great "fun" read... nothing more.  I enjoy science thrillers and didn't regret reading this one.  Although, I won't be recommending it to my wife or brother.  There are just too many better books.  A few points...The pace is excellent.  You run from one scene to the next.  So, while the book is very formula driven, the pacing gets you through it all before you can complain.Lots of action.  For those looking for action, this book has it.  You won't be disappointed.Hero.  Heroine.  Villain.  It's all there.I can't really recommend it, but I doubt anyone will severely regret the reading.
5 Warren Fahy pushes the theory of evolution to it's breaking point with his debut environmental thriller, Fragment.  The book opens with the Trident, a 182 foot exploration ship scheduled to circle the globe in a year long journey to film a new cable reality show, Sea Life.  At first the show's ratings soar but due to a series of storms, filming comes to a halt and the ratings go flat.  That is until the crew stumbles onto a distress signal from a ship, one that has been lost for over three years.  Nell Duckworth, the Trident's botanist is familiar with the area.  She tells the crew that the island where the distress signal seems to be coming from has only been sighted three times in the past 200 years, with only one recorded landing in 1791.  Cynthea, the producer of the reality show questions pursing the signal but as her career has had some bad breaks she sees this as a way to get it back on track.  From this point on you might start to second guess the plot and think the the book is taking on a Jurassic Park theme but what Fahy hatches next is not a creation of man but of nature run amok.This book is the perfect read to escape with.  I'd love to see Fragment as the next summer blockbuster.  But for those naysayers who want more complex characters, more subplots, more whatever; your better off finding another book to read... but before you go would you please pass  the popcorn?  This book is too good to put down.
4 Evolutionary science, spine-tingling horror and reality television collide in Warren Fahy's FRAGMENT, a terrific debut novel that illustrates how scientists' dream discovery quickly devolves into their worst nightmare on the world's most secluded island.FRAGMENT opens in 1791, as a ship on the trail of mutineers from the HMS Bounty happens upon a forbidding walled island in the most isolated region of the vast South Pacific Ocean. What starts as a voyage of discovery on the island (which soon becomes named for the ship's captain, Ambrose Henders) turns into a disaster, causing the sailors to beat a hasty retreat, minus one of their own, who, as one of his shipmates reports, has been "et by monsters."More than 200 years later, another ship, the Trident, approaches Henders Island. This time, though, the craft is manned not only by a ship's crew and a scientific team, but also by a television crew assigned to film the scientists during their voyages to remote islands as part of a reality TV show, "Sealife." The ship is responding to a mysterious distress call sent out by a long-abandoned sailboat. For botanist Nell Duckworth, Henders Island represents the opportunity of a lifetime, the potential chance to study botanical specimens that have evolved isolated from all other forms of life on earth, perhaps even the chance to discover and name a new species.Show producer Cynthea Leeds is excited about Henders Island for her own reason. This might be the perfect opportunity to introduce the kind of drama --- Interpersonal conflicts! Sex! Romance! --- that she needs to boost the program's rating. When a small party of scientists and cameramen go ashore and try to make their way into the island's interior, however, it soon becomes apparent that Henders Island and its previously unseen inhabitants will create more than enough drama.The creatures on Henders Island, both animals and "plants," are entirely alien to any species previously seen on earth. They are, without exception, brutally predatory and perfectly adapted to their ultra-competitive, ultra-violent environment. It soon becomes clear, after a series of planned experiments and horrific accidents, that any one of the species on Henders would soon wipe out life on earth if they were ever removed from the controlled, isolated Henders Island.Soon the original inhabitants of the Trident are locked in a battle of wills with politicians, producers and other scientists about the future of Henders Island. Is it a vital scientific laboratory? A cautionary tale? A source of bioweapons? A threat to human life on earth? As crises mount, various scientific theories play out and proponents of those theories have their chance to stake their claim, make their case, and see how abstract theories play out in "real life" scenarios.Michael Crichton, author most famously of JURASSIC PARK and other scientifically-based thrillers, perfected the combination of sound scientific subject matter and compelling plotlines. First-time novelist Warren Fahy seems poised to fill Crichton's shoes with a novel that keeps readers on the edge of their seats even as it explains provocative theories about such topics as the evolutionary role of natural lifespans and the surprising relationship between sexual reproduction and evolution. At times, some of the scientist characters seem to serve as little more than stand-ins for their preferred theoretical positions, but overall Fahy does an admirable job of integrating fact and fiction in a way that will appeal to thriller fans and amateur scientists alike. Detailed scientific drawings of the Henders Island creatures help add to the air of authenticity and further enhances the narrative.FRAGMENT's story seems well-positioned for a sequel. Here's hoping that Fahy's debut heralds the beginning of a career as long, accomplished and thrilling as Crichton's own.--- Reviewed by Norah Piehl
5 This was a fabulous book.  Scientists discover a little known isolated island.  Left alone for centuries, the life on the island has evolved in a totally different manner than on the rest of the planet.  The storyline is also an enigma, it starts out like a horror movie and ends like a Disney flick.  The author uses more than a little humour in his descriptions of the ghastly creatures on the island and in the ones that take the story to it's finale.  So how does one describe such a book?  It's an adventure.  Those who don't think so, just didn't get the joke!  Highly recommended for those with a sense of humour and a willingness to think outside the box.
4 ***I WOULD RATE THIS BETWEEN 4 & 5 STARS***This is a well written, very creative, extremely entertaining work of fiction.  The story told is, of course, pushing the limits, but as long as the author can suspend disbelief, this works.  Fahy suspends disbelief and offers a tale that is enjoyable and intense.  Be prepared to settle in and finish this because once you start you won't want to stop.I would say that the one thing that made me rate this 4 instead of 5 is that the author could have made the book a little more suspenseful.  He certainly created and utilized all of the necessary elements to present a fantastically suspenseful read.  Although the book was intense, it wasn't what I would call a nail-biter.  That didn't make the book bad, but it seems to me that more suspense would have made the book complete; more suspense would have made this a definite 5 star effort.The creatures of Henders Island are amazing, vividly explained and easy to imagine.  The science, which some of the lower rating reviewers tend to complain about, was not, in my opinion (and I studied English and Philosophy, so I'm not a scientist, for what its worth), difficult to understand and did not detract from nor slow down the story.  I found the science to be interesting and even went online to learn a little bit more about a few of the real world creatures and scientific gadgets mentioned in 'scientific terms'; had I not done this the book would still have been enjoyable and understandable.The characters were all developed well.  There was not real depth to many of them but a character study this book is not.  I believe that a story like this would be bogged down by too much character development.  Instead, Fahy gives us just enough information about each of the characters for us to understand them and their reactions and interactions to and with the island, its inhabitants and the other characters.  I don't believe that ANY of the characters were cliche, as some reviewers have offered, mainly because the characters were not, again in my opinion, developed to be protagonists; the island was the main character here.All in all I can say that this, in its genre, is an excellent book, well worth the read and I would recommend it without reservation.  I can't compare this to what most have compared it as I haven't readJurassic Park(of course, I have seen the movie), personally leaning toward Crichton's 'historical' or 'sci-fi' works likeTimeline,Eaters of the DeadorThe Andromeda Strainall 3 of which I highly recommend, have read only 2 by James Rollins,Map of Boneswhich was great andSandstormwhich was a disaster of a novel that had me swear off of ever again reading Rollins (though I have since given in and started his newest,The Doomsday Keyand am enjoying that so far), and I've not yet readThe Ruinsby Scott Smith though I may in the future.Definitely worth reading and if the cover statement that this book "set off a bidding war" is true I can see why.  The cover also offers that this book "is guaranteed to be summer '09's powerhouse suspense debut"; I would feel safe in agreeing with that statement.Enjoy!
5 I love biology, I love people with awesome imaginations that combine science and action and create a whole new world! I hate biting BUGS! (they love me)So, along comes this brilliant book by Warren Fahy that engages my biological science receptors, and immediately pushes them into overdrive on an obscure island that humankind has rarely touched for eons. A fragment of worlds come and gone; fragments of DNA gone wildly on its way in an evolutionary process that will blow your mind! I was both captivated and horrified, along with the characters who find themselves deposited on Henders Island, which seems to be a living , breathing island...are they trees or animals? bugs or crustaceans or both or all of the above? And just when you think there is absolutely no hope for humankind on Henders Island, the simplest of solutions saves one man, and then the author takes you out of the horrors and into the wonders and beauty of this magnificent isle - all the while, of course, the governments of a few nations have another agenda for Henders Island. Warren Fahy is now amongst my "author you must read everything written" category. If it's written by him, it will be a must read! 5 Raving stars!!!!! Brilliant!
5 Loved this book...once I started reading I did NOT want to put it down! Loved the way it ended! I went right back and bought his sequel, Pandemonium, which picked up right where this one left off.
4 While the idea is not original (think of all the weird life form stories set on isolated islands and mountain tops in S. America), Mr Fahy wrote a pretty engaging book.Here is a speck of an island in the vast Pacific, "discovered" by a British warship who then loses a crew member to something on the island.  Because of the difficulty in getting onto it with its ring of sheer cliffs, the British note it and move on.  Pop ahead a century plus and accidentally an American floating "reality" show responding to a distress call find the island again.Then the 'fun' starts.  The island has some very bloody and interesting secrets which the crew start finding out to their horror.  The details of the ecology (not that I'm an expert by any means but...)is fascinating.  The story does a great job of keeping your interest though the intervals at Woods Hole are very boring and add little to the overall theme.  The chief characters around the island are well developed and the evil scientist foil is done well too.  The idea that such an ecology could be so violent and rapacious makes the story thoughtfully scary too, especially when the implications of such spreading across the world sink in.The weak points were towards the end when it seemed to hurry so to be wrapped up on as few pages as possible.  It also reminded me quickly of the "oh so cute" alien in E.T.  The ending was only so so and left one major question totally ignored.  What kind of parasitical life forms would the intelligent species have on them that would be harmful as virtually all other life on the island was?Good read overall and despite the weak ending, well worth checking out.
5 Warren Fahy has done a great job with "Fragment".  If you're a fan of Michael Chrichton or James Rollins, this book is right up your alley.  In fact, I'd have to say that this is one of the better adventure/science-gone-wrong novels that I've read in a while.The story centers around an undocumented island in the South Pacific that has been isolated for millions of years.  So picture evolution gone different that the rest of the planet.  Next, you're introduced to a boat filming a reality television show and the book takes off.  Throughout the book the author throws in big sections of scientific debate which actually add to the book instead of detract.  I've definitely read books where the author takes the science lecture way too far.  Not so here.All in all, this book has the right mix of action, suspense and fun.  It doesn't take itself too seriously but that's ok.
5 This was a page turner from the start. I wish there were more books like it. The science was fascinating, the characters incredible and the story very imaginative. Bring on another one, Fahy!
5 This book has been compared to Michael Crichton's Jurassic Park. Rightfully so but this is another animal. It's heavy on suspense, action, mystery, science and it's one of the most original books I've ever had the pleasure of reading. The action is solid and the scares are plentiful. Pick this one up! You won't be sorry.
4 Imagine you are filming a reality television series - Sea Life - and you hear a distress beacon coming from this tiny island in the far reaches of the South Pacific. Of course the Trident and crew must go see what is sending this signal.Wait, you and I have seen this movie before on late night TV. But guess what? "Fragment" shows a different side to this overused storyline.I liked this book a lot. I liked the characters. I liked the science. I liked the creatures on Henders Island.  I appreciated the illustrations (wish there had been more). I like books (and movies) based on lost islands or hidden worlds. This was a fun, even educational example of the genre.I am looking forward to reading the sequelPandemoniumnext to see what other "world within a world" author Fahy can come up with.
3 Let's be very clear up front. If Jurassic Park is the Mt. McKinley of this type of literature, Fragment is a hill in the Ozarks. Crichton, this is not. How Fahy took an exciting beginning, with an intensely researched scientific framework, and disintegrated it into a cliched, shallow construction with bizarre, often laughable, results, is anybody's guess. That's exactly what happened though. The subtlety and professionalism of the first half of the book are quickly forgotten in the bloated absurdity of the second. What seemed like a provocative expose, not too thinly veiled in sci-geek speak, is where the book shines. Is the soapbox postulation overbearing? Sometimes. Too frequent? Maybe. Boring to some? Granted. However, this is obviously in Fahy's wheelhouse. What is not in his wheelhouse is action sequences and character development. Many of the glossed-over plot elements really aren't explained. This island of magnificent and terrible beasts is an absolute death sentence for anyone or anything unlucky enough to set foot on it. It's made clear time and time again, quickly, brutally, repetitively. Astonishingly, a group of people are able to set up camp with at least 4 different pods, with nary an interruption. Hmmm, it just doesn't really jive. Even a lone rock climber, ascending a rather isolated plot of rock cannot make ground without being harassed, but an entire troop of engineers and construction people can set up shop without running afoul of the native populace? Wrong. There are dozens of similar examples in the book that have been pointed out in great frequency and clarity by my fellow reviewers, that are just as silly, but there is a plot twist about three-fourths of the way through the book that just pushed the already tensely stretched boundaries of believability, over the cliff into the realm of the absurd. I'd already spent a fair amount of time rolling my eyes by this point, but this one took the cake. I'll not ruin it for those of you who still want to have a go. I'll grant, with reservation, the first part of the book at 4 stars. The back half only warrants 1 1/2.
4 Those looking for a another "Michael Crichton" could do worse than follow the career of Warren Fahy.  Fahy has produced an interesting and unique debut novel with  "Fragment".  The premise deals with an unchartered, isolated island located in Pacific that has evolved on a different path from the rest of the flora and fauna on planet Earth.Since this is "Review #200 and something" of this book, let me not waste your time with yet another dissection of the novel.  Let's just say that if you're a fan of Crichton, you will want to pick up a copy of this book.  It IS hard to put down and fairly action-filled throughout.  My only criticisms are that it does bog down a little in the middle and the motivation of the narcisstic evil scientist Thatcher is a little hard to swallow, but a solid plot twist in the last third allows it to build momentum to a satisfying conclusion.One of the bellwethers that I use in determining how well a book grabs me is whether I want to continue to read the author's other works.  Count on me to pick up a copy of Fahy's next work, "Pandamonium" as soon as it's available.
3 One needs to have a very vivid imagination and like some science fiction in order to enjoy this book. It ranges from horrible, unearthly creatures to creatures likely to be found on a children's tv show. Quite a variety. I did enjoy reading this novel though because it was totally unlike most "monster" stories, and a nice change from the norm. Try it...You might be surprised.
5 Fragment has been compared to Jurassic Park and in a way it is similar to that book but it is also very unique.  It was a very entertaining story in an exotic location.  Once the story takes a sort of crazy turn with the addition of the character Hender, I found it particularly interesting.  Great read, and look forward to the sequel.
4 This was a good airplane paperback find.  It started rough - far too packed with technical jargon and creature detail - ("the urethra from each kidney empties in to the cloaca") - but it came on strong in the end.  An undiscovered island is packed with lethal plant and animal life that has evolved without outside influence fro millions of years.  Part "Jurassic Park" part "Journey to the Center of the Earth", this was a fun read.  Lots of action and a message that the earth really isn't all that fragile.
2 The problem with science-driven adventure thrillers is this: it's hard to justify your decisions.  Chrichton is pretty much the acclaimed master at this; just enough science to make it plausible, but he put most of his emphasis upon thrills and chills.  Fahy tries, but fails.  The problem is, he's not imitating Chrichton: he's imitating James Rollins, Rollins (with his early work) being among the best Chrichton imitators.  The result is definitely a mixed bag: creative creatures and scenarios with a thoroughly unbelievable (even ridiculous) plot that, despite all the terminology tossed left and right and every-which-ways, just doesn't feel at all remotely plausible.Here's the plot: an island is discovered by a Captain Henders, searching for (name drop) the H.M.S. Bounty mutineers.  The man he sends ashore dies horribly.  The island is discovered again, present-day, by a reality TV program.  Similar results.  Now come the U.S. Navy (never fully justified; international waters, people) and scientists galore, most of them grossly incompetent, except for the hero and heroine (and their initial flirting is painful; the first thing she says upon meeting him is, "I could never marry you").  Henders Island has become the focal point for scientific study and exploration, carried out in an entirely unbelievable manner.  (Also, a side note: It should be Henders's Island, or even justifiably Henders' Island; this is one of the many minor errors that accumulates and ultimately weighs the novel down.  Surely Fahy had a copy-editor at some point in the writing process?)Fahy's prose is atrocious; but you expect that with these sorts of novels.  Rollins's writing wasn't top-notch, and he created brilliant adventure-thrillers.  (Chrichton was the exception, a genuinely talented writer creating genre work.)  What we don't expect, at least not in this abundance, is such mundane characterization and dialogue. (At one point, a character actually issues a "come with me if you want to live"-esque line, and is being completely serious.)  Perhaps most unforgivably, the action scenes are quick and god-awful; the reason people even read this genre is for the creature effects.  Fahy's monsters are creative (there are wonderful accompanying illustrations), but most of them end up looking far too similar.  The science behind their evolution comes off as mere words on a page; we get an entire prologue about it, and then two multiple-page lectures from one character alone.  There are multiple "creature" encounters that make little sense; and what's with all the creatures--plant and animal alike--being predatory?  And dozens of species hunting together in a "flood of predators"?  If this novel were a film, it'd cause epileptic fits.Thus, FRAGMENT comes off as a bit of sensory overload, which is a shame, because there was a wonderful premise to work with here; but Fahy was clearly uncomfortable with the material, and decided his saving grace--and not the devil--is in the details.  Fans of the genre will surely be delighted--by now, they're used to bad prose and plots that make no sense whatsoever.  But Fahy's novel isn't as original as it set out to be, and that's a crying shame, because there was promise here.  As is, we have a lackluster thriller than aims to be more and falls way, way short of its mark.
4 Throughout my childhood I was fascinated by dinosaurs, something I ensured I passed along to my sons.  My obsession with those extinct legendary beasts may have also fostered a love for today's creatures, as I sought to watch nature programs then and to this day, as well as a curiosity for cryptozoology.  At the same time I fell in love with the science fiction genre, with my earliest favorite cartoons were Space Ghost and The Herculoids, burgeoning into a love affair with the Star Trek and Star Wars franchises.  Perhaps these interests have led me to crave fictional literature that encompasses elements of both the natural and scientific worlds.  It was during a search for one such title that I stumbled upon Fragment, an accidental discovery I am pleased to have made.While searching through Amazon.com for the latest Steve Alten novel I browsed the section labeled, "People who bought this novel also bought..."  Fragment was among the titles listed and I clicked on the image.  After  a cursory glance at the book description I noticed a new feature, webisodes.  Curious, I viewed the first, and shortly after the second and third.  These vignettes were cleverly scripted, if poorly acted, and served to appropriately whet my appetite, inducing the immediate impulse to devour the contents of the novel.  Admittedly, I was a sucker for the advertising, though I have no remorse and shamelessly confess that I went to both my public library and nearest book store to procure two copies, allowing my to keep one to read during my free time at work and the other on my night table.  The story, though almost entirely unrelated to the webisodes, did not disappoint.While the webisodes focused on a "what if" scenario, in which a bizarre yet essentially trivial specimen from Hender's Island in the Pacific, the primary setting of the novel, was accidentally discovered and sold to a biologist, the novel itself features an array of fictional beasts unlike anything that exists in the world today.  No, these creatures are not the result of nuclear testing, a la Godzilla.  Rather, they are a natural byproduct of millions of years of isolated evolution, where a small portion of the mega-continent Pangea broke away before the dawn of the dinosaurs to produce an entire ecosystem that traces its ancestry to shrimp and other crustaceans.  Neither reptiles nor mammals sprouted from this offshoot, and near as botanist Nell Duckworth can tell, even plant-life as we know it is non-existent.  Author Warren Fahy's imagination was working at full throttle as this story births a fantastic, if horrifying, array of beasts that prove hostile to themselves, and downright overwhelming to any and all species we are familiar with in our own world.  The crew of Sea Life, a floundering reality show that responds to a distress beacon in a desperate attempt to salvage ratings, is devastated within minutes of landing ashore, losing 11 people while only Nell and a cameraman named Zero survive the encounter.  While this is the most costly excursion onto the island, it is by no means the only one that results in bloodshed and the loss of life.The plot line of this novel is a bit erratic, akin to the tempo of a J.R.R. Tolkein story.  While at times the action is fast-paced and tension is running high, these are separated by episodes character introduction, subplot development, and scientific explanation.  Though I found the story tendril that wove in the antagonist somewhat tedious, it was sufferable and provided opportunity to digest the implications of the evolutionary science described and infer future repercussions and events.  In fact, my only real criticism is that Fahy is another male author who fails to deliver a plausible romantic thread into his writing.  Early in the story Nell tells the producer of Sea Life that she is not anybody's "type," and that she doesn't want to be.  However, immediately upon being introduced to our late-entering (and decidedly clueless about women) hero she says of his last name, "I could never marry you."  Within hours of their initial meeting they begin fawning over each other, fantasizing about the possibility of romance while and shortly after people are suffering grizzly deaths around them.  Their relationship seems forced and far-fetched.  At least in Speed the characters portrayed by Sandra Bullock and Keanu Reeves were never defined by their awkwardness with the opposite sex, so their eventual coupling was at least plausible.  Simply put, you cannot take two independent people who are in no way seeking romantic endeavors and force them together in a few death-laden chapters.For anyone seeking a science fiction story, defined by creativity and laced with just enough fact to be loosely plausible, Fragment is a strong choice.  The action sequences are well-written, with enough fear and tension to have you tightly gripping the cover as you read.  So long as you remain unconcerned with the love affairs of the characters and can appreciate the remote possibility of a place such as Hender's Island actually existing, you will find yourself as anxiously anticipating Fahy's sequel as I am.
4 Ever read the Amazon key for their star ratings? 4 is "I Like It." It's not "Love It" or "The Best Science Fiction Ever" or even "The Clear and Only Successor to Crichton" it's I like it; which perfectly describes my feelings towards Warren Fahy's "Fragment".The premise is a man vs. nature tale that has been over done - modern man accidentally discovers a lost island of fantastic and deadly creatures.  In this case, the island has been isolated since the parting of the great land masses and has evolved into a lost world of species totally foreign to ours.  Deadly hunter beasties rule this island  and, if allowed to migrate to our world, would render the entire ecosystems of our world extinct in a decade.Having a cast of characters who are scientists allows Mr. Fahy to weave a number of interesting theses into this fantasy.  Some of them (man as the most deadly predator) are too well known, some others (procreation is an outcome of violence therefore a species life cycle is directly correlated to their mating cycle) are less well known, but all are presented in an engaging lecture/debate format that manages to add to the drama instead of subtract from it. Not a very easy thing to do given the weightiness of some of the discussions, and Mr. Fahy should be recognized for this accomplishment.Those looking for the action side of the equation will be pleased with the various set pieces and edge of your seat chase scenes that share equal screen time with its science brethren.  And there's the rub - Fragment is an action novel wrapped in a blanket of science and served up as a fast food appetizer.  It's a literary/pseudo-science hot dog that, like it's real world counterpart will appeal to many and disgust those who think about its contents too long.There is much to like.  I enjoyed the sense of individualism that each character displayed and that was reinforced with solid dialogue. I loved the Darwin-esque field book sketches of the animals.  The facts, especially in the prologue, are very thought provoking and that makes the ridiculousness of a "lost world" a believable threat.  But with that said there is much to dislike. Some of the characters (the villain especially) are a little too obvious, a little too 2 dimensional.  There are also numerous low star reviews that will gleefully point out the flaws in science or logic applied here.Go in expecting a great tasting hotdog, not a full gourmet meal, and you will probably walk away from Fragment with a pleasantly full belly.
3 Warren Fahy's "Fragment" isn't a bad little book. This sci-fi thriller/horror novel will definately plant some frightening new images in your nightmare rolodex....especially if you hate bugs!The story really begins with a Discovery Channel reality show landing on a bizarre and almost unknown little island that has been virtually untouched by mankind. The reception the crew receives from the island's "inhabitants" is a waking nightmare. With most of the crew devoured by a variety of insects, animals and plantlife, all while being broadcast around the globe. Now the US Military and Government must try to understand and explore the island while deciding it's fate.Fahy does a decent job of describing his nasty critters, and packs enough action into his novel that comparisons can easily be made to works by Michael Crichton or Ken Follett. Fahy also has a flair for the horrific, and seems to delight in giving you some nasty descriptive passages of what exactly happens when humans come into contact with his island inhabitants. If you are familiar with James Rollins' work, imagine a gory version of "Subterranian" or "Amazonia" and that will give you an idea of how "Fragment" reads.The only real issues I had with the novel, was that at times the story gets buried under a bit of techno babble or scientific geek speak. The early passages featuring protagonist Geoffrey Binswanger are particularly dense with scientific terms. So much so, that almost any characterization of the hero is lost (I read 2/3 of the novel before realizing the character was African-American???). The final third of the novel takes an unexpected twist (which I promise not to divulge) but which felt kind of "tacked" on. While not awful by any means, just very unexpected, and not where I was hoping the story would go.But if you are a fan of sci-fi thrillers you should enjoy "Fragment". As a fan of nasty bugs, and murderous critters, I enjoyed the novel.
4 Warren Fahy's Fragment was a delight to read, action-packed, gruesomely fun and exciting in a Jurassic-Park kind of way - but I think such comparisons are a little thin.  Fahy deals with concepts of evolution and the mechanics of natural biology, whereas Crichten's theme was man's tampering with nature and causing unintended catastrophic consequences.  In Fragment, nature just plain kicks our butts.  We know the hapless TV-show contestants don't stand a chance against exotic creatures living in conditions requiring extreme violence for survival, but even soldiers with armored vehicles and flamethrowers don't last much longer against Fahy's twistedly-imagined monstrosities.All this, with its typical cast of heroes and villains-who-get-their-comeuppances, was great fun, but what really intrigued me - and made me wish Fahy went farther with it, was the startlingly-original and interesting theory at the heart of this story, revealed by one of the scientist types in a series of mainland discussion groups with his peers: that an organism's life-expectancy could be directly related to its reproductive tendencies.  The detail he presents, calling out species after species, from single-celled organisms up to large complex beasts, and even man, was brilliant, and while the book explored this concept a little at the end with one of the species found on the island, it was kind of a let down for me, as I expected him to go a different way with this, perhaps even making a believer out of the villains, who then might plan to harness the potential of the island in order to transform themselves into near-immortals.  But alas...Still, a brilliant concept, and a great book!
1 Fragment is like a bag of potato chips you don't really want but you eat anyway because you are stuck in an airport for four hours or more after all the restaurants have closed and there is nothing else in the vending machine.  The cover blurbs hearken Jurassic Park - twice - and that should have been a strong clue.  This is not really a book, it's a bid for a screenplay.  It's entirely predictable and largely recycled Chricton.  It also features the most shameless exercise in product placement seen in print.  I only read it because I was stuck somewhere with nothing else to read.
1 I should have known I was in trouble when I was skipping a bunch of pages at the beginning. This book is loaded with filler. It's like the writer didn't have enough story so he filled it up with pages upon pages of evolutionary science. Why I am subjected reading about an entire lecture? Am I in school? Feels like it.The characters are also bland and uninteresting. They seemed like they were all one boring scientist. So when one got killed, you didn't care. Why would the U.S. Navy/Government allow the scientists of a reality tv show help or head up the investigation once they had quarantined the island? I'm sure that's what the government wants "reality show scientists." I read a little over half of the book and couldn't stand it any longer. It was easier to put it down because I only paid $2.99 for the hardcover.
3 The writing style at first seemed a little choppy to me but it quickly settled into a fast pace and enjoyable story.  It's pretty unbelievable so you need to suspend reality and really just immerse yourself in the action.  I loved the concept of exploring a piece of land that has been untouched by the surrounding world for possibly millions of years and seeing what life would be like in that case.  It is kind of scary seeing these potential competitors to humans and every life form we are familiar with.  I did not care for the character development of the main scientist, Nell, and I really did not see the need to toss in the romance between her and another researcher.  That romance was so whirlwind and seemed to come out of the blue with no chemistry that it did not seem to serve any real purpose.  Other than that this is probably a good, quick summer read.
4 This is a fascinating story of an island isolated from the rest of the world where an alternate evolutionary path exists.  It is a great ride and I kept imagining the movie that could be made from it.
5 I found this book in a thrift store, before kindle. It was hard to find books that i had not read in the genres i like so i most often bought and reread books from the past....What a score when i found this one, it will be on my once a year reread list from favorite authors. You can read for yourself what this book is about so if that's what you're into (or looking for something different) this is definitely a fun read.
4 By the third page of this book I had a pretty good idea of how it would end. Oh, not the details, mind you, but the overall arc mainly because it follows the predictable path trod before it by Michael Crichton's "Jurassic Park", the "King Kong" movies, and even Arthur Conan Doyle's "Lost World."In fact, "Fragment" falls squarely in the family line of novels that arose after the era of the Victorian Enlightenment, in which Man thought he had had conquered nature and was now its master. Inevitably, novels like Doyle's rejected that hubris to show that however much Man thinks he's in charge, Nature always triumphs. Or if it doesn't, maybe it should.Such thinking is even more fashionable today among those who warn of humanity's dire effects on the environment, and so Fahy takes up that banner. He does so very well with an entertaining and fast-paced read that includes one big twist and lots of scientific talk. (I'm not expert enough to know whether the science is accurate, but I can say it's not so convoluted that a layman can't follow. Or you can skip it and still enjoy the story.)And yet, it's still the Nature Triumphs over Man formula. You have the deadly but shadowy reveal of the "monster," the disastrous first encounter by our hero, the retreat and then plucky advance, the dupe who blusters and is then lost, the villain who hopes to exploit Nature and his inevitable gruesome yet poetic demise, the heroic ending. If you've seen Spielberg's movie, you can track the plot points even as the details change.That isn't to say I didn't enjoy the story. It's a pageturner as you follow along the hero's progress and wait to see what new creation emerges from his fertile imagination. If you expect a popcorn-cinema experience, a good beach novel, then you'll be satisfied. But don't expect any innovation of the genre as it plays out strictly by the numbers.
5 After having completed my read of "Fragment" this morning I had to write to tell you Thank You for having spent the effort to write this novel and get it published.It is truly one of the most memorable novels I have ever read - and I read about 2-4 novels per month for the last 30 years.The characters were very believable and the plot very plausible. In a way, I came to wish that there was a Henders Island and that humanity had another intelligent species to inhabit the earth with that we could communicate with. Maybe a different point of view could help humanity to think "outside the box" better.After I finished reading "Fragment" I went to the author's web site and viewed the awesome art work there. Having the beautiful images there really made the novel come alive in my mind's eye.Again, thank you to the author and good luck in your future writing efforts. I for one, will be watching for your next novel with great anticipation.I find it ironic, that I had placed this novel on my bookshelf, before having read it, next to "Darwinia" by Robert Charles Wilson. It to, was a novel about alternate paths of evolution. Hmmm.
4 It is quite possible that Fahy will reach the upper levels among writers of this sort of fantasy-science fiction thriller; he is not there yet. I found his use of the 'isolated island' theme interesting until the last quarter of the book when he sauntered onto Stephen Spielberg's turf without rising to be competitive. Most of the characters are paper cut-outs but they serve their purpose which is to engage with the anti-human elements on the island.It is in the description of the island's inhabitants and their attack on the human enemies who  have invaded their home territory that Fahy generates most interest and also most decision-making by the reader: shall I turn to another book or stick with this to the end. I don't regret staying with it, but those events which I cannot mention, did try my patience.Along with some palatable science necessary to sustain the intellectual facade, he engages in retailing some very dull science-like talk which has much the same excitement to it as watching those so-called flowers ripen and bloom.All-in-all, probably a very good read for younger people and a light flight of fancy for older ones. It does have the virtue of not getting too seriously into preachment.
5 When I first picked up Fragment by Warren Fahy I thought, "Oh great, another Jurassic Park rip-off." Well this book is anything but a rip-off. Yes, it involves ferocious creatures living on an isolated island and human beings who are trapped on that island, but that is where the similarity ends and the world of Fahy takes over.This island is a land out of time, but instead of dinosaurs, it is a completely different place and time. The island was isolated from the rest of the world before the evolution of dinosaurs so the life that evolved is completely different from that anywhere else on earth. The creatures therein have adapted to an eat or be eaten world in which humans never developed. A boat packed with scientists being filmed for a reality show land on this island in answer to a distress call, and ratings zoom out of sight when the television viewers get more than they bargained for-- a front row seat to the slaughter of most of the scientists!The US Military quickly takes over but the island manages to defeat everything the best minds of NASA and academia can throw at it. The action is fast-paced, the characters likable and believable and the island out of time completely realistic and terrifying. This book is a fascinating foray into speculative zoology and botany for anybody interested in life science. On occasion, Fahy dwells a little too much on the jargon, but that in no way detracts from what is undeniably a really good and fun book to read.
5 This is one of the best books ive read in a very long time. The reviews say if you love Jurassic Park then your going to love this, and while I believe thats true I think there are a ton of differences. When it comes to the wildlife this book reminded me of the movie Avatar more than anything. I would love for this to get made into a movie. This could be the next big "jurassic park" style franchise. A bunch of scientists stumble onto an island where everything has evolved differently AND it all wants to eat you? Yes please! Theres A LOT of science in this book which some people may see as a drawback, but personally I really enjoyed every second of this book. I was sad when it was over just because it was over. Great to hear Warren Fahy is working on a sequal. And I'm so glad he is one of the few authors who has illustrations of his creatures. Well done Mr. Fahy, I cannot wait to see what you give us in the future. Michael Crichton will always be missed and can never be replaced, but I cant help but feel the new generation has deffinatly arrived.
4 The story entertained with new expressions of "other-worldly" evolutionary unique creatures vividly described. Very enjoyable if you like Jurassic Park type imaginative fiction. I thoroughly enjoyed it. Thanks for a fun read! I recomend it. Write more!
5 Warren Fahy's debut novel, Fragment, deals with a simple question.  What would happen if a piece of our world was isolated and evolved on its own for half a billion years?The answer comes in the form of a captivating novel that binds science with adventure in a well written package along the vein of Jurassic Park.  But like the animals on Henders Island this book is not simply a clone of the Jurassic genere, instead its an evolution.The Story:Fragment follows three main characters: the first is a botanist named Nell Duckworth, the second is a scientist who studies evolution on island habitats named Dr. Geoffrey Binswanger, the third character is Dr. Thatcher Redmond, a scientist concentrates on the disastorous effects humans have on their environments.Duckworth is on a reality TV show called SeaLife that is supposed to bring scientists to explore the great wonders of the oceans and natural world.  To do so they are on a ship called Trident.  As they travel from the Galapagos Islands they pass by Henders Island, an island that, due to its extreme distance from shipping lanes and relatively unapproachable nature, has not been explored since it was first charted in 1791.The Trident intercepts an SOS coming from the island and Cynthia (the shows director) in an attempt to boost ratings, enthusiastically supports the search.  The scientists don't find anybody on the beach when they land so they explore further inland, all the while broadcasting live to the world.  Predictably a massacre ensues as the creatures from Henders island prey upon the unsuspecting scientists.  Only Zero, the cameraman, and Nell survive.The footage is decried as a hoax by pundits everywhere and Sealife is essentially finished, but before anything further can happen the USS Enterprise carrier group surrounds Henders Island and puts it under lockdown.  The Trident is not allowed to leave.What follows is a scientific thriller tour de force with scientists attempting to understand the creatures on Henders Island, everyday people and scientists alike trying to figure out if the footage is a hoax.It's impossible to go into more detail without seriously spoiling the story,  and its many twists.  I will however mention two of the ways in which Fragment vastly surpasses Jurassic Park.  Firstly the book contains creatures that supposedly evolved from other creatures right here on our earth, which means that they are a. completely made up, and b. have similarities and logical reasons for the way they are.  This is, in my opinion better than Jurassic genre because it allows for creatures significantly more intriguing and mystifying than dinosaurs.  Another way in which the novel surpasses its predecessors is that it doesn't skirt around having the government available to help deal with the monsters.  The entire power of the united states government is brought to bare on the island, the book doesn't take place in some vacuum where it is impossible to call for help.The biggest problem I had with the book was the manner in which it conveyed its scientific payload.  At the beginning of the book scientific data is disseminated through the Reality TV show, in much the same way the ride at Jurassic park allows for simplistic explanation of scientific nuances.  Once, however, the show is shut down the explanations become more forced.  This is not to say that it is difficult to understand what they are saying, for the most part it is explained clearly, but their are definitely times when it feels a little forced.Overall I found the book to be an excellent and enjoyable read.  I look forward to more of Fahy's books and to the inevitable movie that I'm sure will eventually be made.
4 I was planning to read this one during my summer holiday but I have started it one day before the holiday and could't stop reading it to the end in less than 24 hours. I'm thankful to Cosma Shalizi for recommending this book because it turned out to be full of energy: a very fast-paced action thriller that makes the reader to adopt a very different perspective on biology, evolution and our place in nature (and you also find yourself looking for mantis shrimp videos, among other things, on YouTube ;-). I have found the ending of the story a little 'cheesy' but apart from that I could've given it 5 stars easily.
5 The first night I cracked open Warren Fahy's "Fragment," I ended up reading until 2 a.m.If that is not an indication of what you've got in store for you, I don't know what is.From the fictional (yet entirely factual) essay that opens the book to the prologue that gives us a glimpse of what is in store to the opening sequences that set the stage for the science thriller to come, "Fragment" hits all the right notes in all the right places. It all begins with the fantastic premise. We've got a remote island in the middle of the Pacific, isolated for hundreds of millions of years. The life that has evolved here is unlike anything else on Earth. Our first encounters with it ... do not go well.But we're human beings. We've GOT to study this stuff, right?So in we go with science teams and the military and the rest. From there we get pretty much what we expect, which is to say suspenseful thrills as we deal with the dangers of this island, intellectual brain food as Fahy tosses more science at us than a freshman course (yet in a way that will be friendly even to casual readers), and of course the bumbling civilian idiots who threaten to screw things up time and again.This is the kind of thriller that makes you feel smart; the sort of suspense book you just KNOW is going to make a great movie.Sure, sure, we've got our share of clich&eacute;s. The blood-thirsty television producer, for instance, is a major one. And yes, we have to suspend out disbelief at times, such as the seeming lack of grief surrounding a fairly major event at the start of the book or the implausibility of the premise if we put too much thought into it. But this really doesn't matter. Putting too much thought into it destroys this awesome exploration of the diverging paths evolution can take. Fahy has crafted a science mystery with enough depth and believability that we can overlook these shortcuts and stay focused on the big science questions: What is on this island? What does the discovery mean for the world? In what varied directions could evolution have spun?And what the heck are those giant spider/tiger things?I was absorbed from the word go.Simply put, if you enjoy science-driven page-turning in the spirit of Michael Crichton and others, you'd be hard-pressed to go wrong with "Fragment".
5 I read this book when it first came out in hardback, and it was the first title I purchased and read when I bought my Kindle. I can say that I have read it about 4 times since it first came out, and each time I fully enjoy it.Personally, I found the characters interesting and very well rounded, and the science of the novel was well researched.
1 Has anyone noticed that this whole concept of an isolated island where evolution takes its own course was ripped off from King Kong's Skull Island?Writing - TerribleCharacters - One DimensionalPlot ideas - Contrived and copied form  other sourcesThe concepts for the animals was cool but other than that.....poor writing
5 When I say icky bug, in this case I mean it literally. This story was full of icky bugs!This takes the Lost World and puts it on steroids. The remote island in question is full of the most dangerous icky bugs imaginable. A bonus is that the author included some drawings, though most of them are not what I imagined from his word pictures. Then again, it was still nice to see some visual aids to go along with the narrative.The story has a large cast of characters and at times it's hard to figure who the main protagonist is. Yet, there is no doubt who the bad guy is.For once, the military wasn't portrayed as mindless killers, a refreshing plot twist, even though there was still the inevitable nuclear solution.The story is well written, the characters plausible, and as a whole, the story was easy to read. Chapters weren't overlong, and there were plenty of scene breaks indicated by a time setting instead of just asterisks or a gap between them.Because the book got such high praise on the cover blurbs, it really worried me that this story might have an ending like the terrible The Ruins. However, I was quite happy with the ending and can't wait for the sequel.Probably the only thing that could be considered a negative was that the author tended to get bogged down in scientific theory. However, it wasn't to the point where I started to skip paragraphs. I didn't find it particularly annoying but it might be a bit much for some people.All in all, this is great icky bug. Highly recommended.
5 I read all the time both fiction and non-fiction, Fragment reads really fast  if you like James Rollins, Preston Douglas or Lincoln Childs books you will enjoy this, its a Great Book.
5 Thrillers fall into several categories. One category involves the protagonist landing on a remote island and encountering a lost world, often populated by dinosaurs. FRAGMENT takes this idea to a new, different, and fearsome state. In doing so, it gives us a story that stands above most thrillers. The tale takes place today. The research vessel, Trident, has taken the cast and crew of the reality TV show, Sealife, to Henders Island, a remote, unexplored place in the south Pacific. Except for a narrow canyon, the island is bordered by high cliffs. When an exploratory party, including several scientists, lands and enters the canyon, they are set upon by savage, alien  creatures of all sizes and types - a biologist's nightmare. The grotesque creatures kill each other constantly, but they reproduce so rapidly that they suffer no loss of population. The island's remoteness has caused the evolution of a frightening population of animals that are entirely different from those on the rest of the earth. Attempts to scout the island result in deaths or close calls for the scientists. The US Navy answers the Trident's call for help. As more scientists arrive, they decide that the island's creatures are such a threat to the earth that they must be destroyed by a nuclear weapon. But after the President has given the order, the scientists make a discovery that changes everything and sends the intensity level above its already high state. This is an exceptional and enjoyable thriller. Its biological basis is sound, and it would make a terrific motion picture.
4 Last Year, the world of fiction lost a treasure with the passing of Michael Crichton, if for no other reason that wherever he went he was likely to be the smartest man in the room. On top of the movie scripts that came from his work (some good and some not), there were the wonderful novels that were written in the spirit of writers from the "Golden Age of Science Fiction". He managed to do some substantial education of scientific frontiers in a way that made them entertaining and educational. With his loss there appeared a huge vacuum in the genre' of technological/ science suspense.I think after reading "Fragment" today, that I have hope of an heir apparent in Warren Fahy. It may be really reaching on my part, and in honesty, there were some weak moments in the writing, but overall "Fragment" was a fun read that delved into the science of marine biology and ecosystems.  It  strained at credibility at times, and maybe it even toed the line of being ridiculous in a few places, but overall, it was entertaining and a pretty interesting "what if" novel.So here's the deal, Fahy might not be a Michael Crichton yet,(for example he doesn't site his statements like Chricton, but I did look up some of the things referenced like the "Mantis Shrimp" and that was interesting) and may never be for all I know, but if you miss his writing, then Warren Fahy is a new writer to check out and "Fragment "is the book to check out and buy for a fun summer read.4*
4 I bought this book as reading material for an upcoming seven-hour flight. Despite the cover, there is not a single dinosaur in this book--and while I bought the book thinking that there were, the animals' absence is actually one of the best things about it.First things first: this is not a part of the Lost World genre. Instead, Fragment is a member of the lesser known (but in my opinion, far more interesting) Speculative Zoology genre. Like The Future Is Wild or the Speculative Dinosaur Project, it focuses on the possibile outcome if certain extinct species had survived and continued evolving. Unlike most works in this category, which usually focus on dinosaurs, Fragment reaches significantly farther back, to Cambrian-type organisms--invertebrates all, but still extremely interesting ones.Due to the massive length of time that Hender's Island has been separated from the rest of the world, Fragment's "creatures" are noticeably different from normal animals--and this is both good and bad. Good, because it means this isn't yet another story recycling and abusing the same old dinosaurs just for the wow factor. The animals in Fragment have obviously had a lot of creativity put into them, and they are still going to be completely new to you no matter how much you are familiar with real fossil animals. There is also much less room for factual errors (all books that feature dinosaurs have at least a few).The drawback is that when you have so much elbow room to work with (some 300 million years of elbow room), it becomes very easy to step over from speculative scientific fiction into fantasy, and Fragment occasionally sticks a toe across this line. But in general this does not detract from how interesting the creatures, or the plot itself, are. Some may find Fahy's "Hendersapiens" obnoxious, but I leave this up to the disposition of the individual reader. I personally thought that the concept made some sense, in an odd sort of way.That aside, Fragment is still a very engaging read. Because most of the main characters are scientists, science--especially ancient life--is a large part of the book. The "scientific parts" are in no way dull, and although there is some technical jargon, everything is explained enough that the reader should be able to keep up easily enough even if their understanding of biology is so-so. I was lucky enough to have read up on several of the featured topics already, and was pleasantly surprised at how rich--and accurate--the facts presented are.
5 This is a great book!Interesting sience and a fast pase adventure. This is the mose creative and original book Ive read in a long time, I cant wait for a sequel and more books by him. great authour in the league of Michael Crichton.
4 This has been quite a year for me; I have read quite a few novels by first time authors. There are some wonderful, original voices out there that deserve your attention. Midway through Fragment, by Warren Fahy, I took some time out to see what other books he had written and was shocked to find that this is his first novel. It is a novel that grabs you within the first few pages and does not release you until the final page has been read.In 1791, H.M.S Retribution was hunting H.M.S Bounty, as the British admiralty wanted their ship back. As the ship was crossing the South Pacific, it came across a small island, Hoping to refill their water barrels, the captain put a small landing party ashore. Within minutes of making landfall, the party leaves in haste, as something killed one of the sailors. The captain made note of the island in his log, but as it was so remote, the chances of another ship finding it was slim. Fast forward to present day. A new reality show has hit the airwaves, this time a research vessel travelling the Pacific, loaded with scientists. As they are making their way across the ocean, they pick up an emergency beacon coming from the island and change course to investigate. Of the people that make the landing, only two escape alive. Shortly after, the US Navy blockades the island and brings in some of the top scientific minds to study it. Henders Island has a very unique ecosystem, one that has serious implications for science and humanity.Much of the tension in this novel is created by the chapters themselves. Each is a day, then broken down by time. This is an extremely effective device, which also allows several things to happen at once, without detracting from the flow. However, the science and descriptions of Henders Island flora and fauna at times slow the book. Fahy helps the reader by including pictures of the fauna, as the descriptions take a much more inventive mind than mine to comprehend. When first presented with a description of the fauna, I was confused. Turning the page revealed a drawing, which made it much more clear. Thankfully. With a few exceptions, the characters aren't very imaginative or well defined, but they are serviceable for the story. I simply reminded myself that this is Fahy's first novel, and he can be forgiven for stereotypical characters. Even with these two "complaints," this is an excellent, fast paced, well researched, hard-to-put-down thriller. It may even leave you wondering how mankind would react to new and different flora and fauna, the types that would question "conventional wisdom." If you count Michael Crichton as one of your favorite authors, love fiction with a good dose of reality, you will not be disappointed with Fahy's debut novel.
5 On board the ship Trident are the crew of the reality TV show SeaLife and several scientists who were promised a year of sort of Darwin like research into the exotic ocean and island life on the planet in exchange for filming the contacts.  So far, the voyage into the South pacific has been filled with ennui until a beacon help signal comes from nearby Henders Island.  The vessel heads there to assist those in need.However, what greets the seafarers is a shocker.  There is flora and fauna like nothing ever seen anywhere else on the planet.  As several scientists are killed by the intelligent animal life, botanist Nell Duckworth realizes what has happened on this remote island; evolution took a different path approximately a half billion years ago and miraculously survived.  As the US Navy blockades the island and quarantines the Trident fearing anything escaping could prove hazardous to the rest of the world's ecosystem, the natives prove sentient and resourceful as they seek off the island.Though an obvious link to Jurassic Park, FRAGMENT takes a different scientific spin using evolution as the basis of what lives on the island.  Warren Fahy provides an exciting story line yet loads his narrative with scientific terminology and theories without dumbing it down.  Readers will appreciate this super science fiction thriller that explains the evolution of reproduction and the possibility of such an island like Henders existing with the unique marsupial population of Australia that superseded mammals as the dominant species.  Science and fiction rarely blend together better than this winning thriller.Harriet Klausner
5 A sea-based reality-scientific TV show, with young and sexy scientists, comes across a tiny island in the middle of the Pacific, and makes a stunning discovery - a completely unknown ecosystem left over from a mostly sunken continent, where evolution has developed on a completely different path for half a billion years.  The discovery not only opens a new area of scientific research, but also poses a serious threat to the existence of life on earth, which could be wiped out by the extraordinarily aggressive life forms on the island, once they escape from their island prison and get out into the oceans and from there to land.The military response is to nuke the island - but that would destroy a unique ecosystem, and the only peaceful life on the island.  The race to save the earth from being overrun by the aggressive new species, while saving the peaceful one, is a real nail-biter.  This is a stunning scientific thriller, in the tradition of Frank Schatzing's The Swarm.
1 If Fahy had put a third of the effort into developing his characters that he put into developing his science, this would be a far better book. Most of the characters are completely, utterly one-dimensional. The rest are one-dimensional with a quirk or two tacked on to give an illusion of depth. The major protagonist, Nell, is a complete and utter Mary Sue. Most characters (if not all) could quickly be summed up in a word or short phrase, and they practically have "GOOD" and "EVIL" stamped on their foreheads. In one case, a character kills a child for no better reason than to show us how morally repugnant he is. There's no believable reason for the setup, nor for why he doesn't get reported, hunted down, and arrested.Fahy just doesn't think things through sometimes, either. I doubt biologists--an entire audience of scientists--are going to be "squirming in disgust" at a simple slide image of an earthworm. It's also hard to imagine a bunch of military and science folks all failing to realize that going out in a vehicle that has rubber tires, on an island where one of the most widely-spread life-forms can secrete heavy-duty acid, might just be a bad idea. (The characters were actually shocked when something went wrong with that plan--all except Nell, naturally, because she's the Mary Sue.)I live not too far from DC, and let's face it, it's hard to live in this area without learning at least a few things about the government. First of all, the idea of a government agent chasing a scientist down on his bike (rather than, say, waiting for him at his office or outside his front door, or I don't know, maybe calling him?) in order to issue a polite summons from the President is so ludicrous I don't know whether to laugh or cry.There's also an advisor-type character who shows up pretty much just to fail to listen to anyone and get himself into deep trouble. I hate to break this to the author, but at the particular level of government this guy was presented as being, his whole job consists of listening to and acting on the advice of others. The idea of him jumping out into the field himself, particularly such a dangerous field, after ignoring a ton of advice, is almost as ludicrous as that bicycle agent.Up until the end of the book, there's almost no tension--and for a book that's advertised as a fast-paced action & adventure novel, that's a killer. The action-based scenes are interspersed very sparsely between the slow stuff, and when they do happen, most of them are over in seconds. In one case the author actually interrupts an action scene to give us three paragraphs of loving description regarding the interactions between mongooses and cobras. Talk about a pace-killer.I'll stop there. Anything else would be overkill; you get the idea. One-dimensional characters; vast swaths of exposition; characters that make unbelievable decisions; an absolutely ridiculous view of government employees... the only parts that I enjoyed were the imaginative variety of life-forms on the island, and some of the action scenes toward the end.
5 Warren Fahy really nailed it here.  An undiscovered island where anything on the island can kill you?!?!?  How are you not drawn into that.  I am excited about the sequel and can't wait to get my hand on it.  Would definitely recommend to another.
2 Starts out with interesting premise but develops into an unbelievable story line. The cast of island characters are overly developed into a techno babble that drags on and on. I have read better.
1 I'm a big fan of book of this genre, my favorite being Crichton's Jurassic Park. When I read on the cover that this is compared to Jurassic Park, I had to get it.The overall premise of the book is very interesting, but I was extremely disappointed by the writing. There is no depth whatsoever in the characters. The scientists talk and behave like high school kids. Perhaps the author was too ambitious and tried to deal with way too many characters in the book. Each seemed equally important, so they end up being bland and under-developed. The overall pace of the book is also way too quick; while the details of the animals are great, I could not help but feel that too many things were happening too quickly -- kind of like trying to read a map without glasses while in a fast-moving train in a crazy snow storm.In summary, a great idea delivered poorly. I feel insulted on behalf of Michael Crichton to be compared with such a book.
2 I went in expecting a Michael Crichton type "Jurassic Park" adventure (the book compares itself to Jurassic Park and The Ruins), but was ultimately disappointed.The first half of the book was fairly interesting and moved along well.  The science part was impressive throughout the book, but the author's use of unnatural dialogue and unrealistic interactions between characters was a major flaw in the second half.  Character development was ultimately weak.  A "sort of" romance between the main character and some other character added later in the book didn't do much to help.  At one point I had to stop and try to remember who the romantic interest was and what he had to do with the story.Overall, it's a quick and easy read but it isn't something likely to stick with you for very long.  Still, I feel the author has a good imagination and a good grasp of the science part of science fiction so I hold out some hope for his future endeavors.
2 The concept is very good and the science is very well researched. However the characters are weak and the plotline isn't very interesting. Additionally, the ending doesn't work. I found the writing to be pretty good although his use of adverbs was odd. It seemed that the author wasn't very comfortable writing dialogue. Overall the book should have been good but for some reason the whole was less than the sum of it's parts. Not recommended.
2 The review title says it all, a great movie premise that doesn't work as a novel.  The thing is, the reasons it didn't wind up working as a novel are so easy to fix with some good editing.The premise is pretty interesting:  An island in the South Pacific ignored through time by humanity.  All too easy to believe, that and the fact that it's animals and insects might have evolved differently given that isolation, most of them into lethal predators.  Those who come across the island over the centuries don't make it out of there to tell the tale.  Again, we're rolling here, and it's after a reading of this premise that the Jurassic Park comparisons come.  The stars of the book are the creatures, and it's clear that Warren Fahy has quite an imagination for these types of things, and I was glad that he included drawings as well, as some of his descriptions were very complex.  He's got a great imagination, there's no denying it.That said, a story needs interesting characters, and Fragment doesn't have any.  The novel is populated by stock characters, including every scientific geek possible, none of whom make an impression.  Indeed I got some of them mixed up by the halfway point, including the deputy hero and the ostensible villain, something that you don't want to do.  The real issue though was the dialogue, as it was almost uniformly bad.  Fanfiction dialogue is better than this most of the time, sometimes a lot better.  Characters all too often acted like drama queens, for no other reason than they could, and there was a lot of shouting where it didn't seem called for.  I say that because there seemed to be just as many sentences ending in exclamation points as in periods.  This all could/should have been fixed in the editing process, and it's hard to get mad at Fahy for it.  Hopefully this gets fixed for the promised sequel.Was it a waste of money?  Not really, not for $8.  I'll also have a leg up on most when the movie comes out, as I'll know about the creatures.  I can't wait to see what WETA or ILM does with them.  Just, and I'm begging movie studio X, gives us halfway decent characters.  Please?Two stars.
4 One of a very few books which had my stomach in knots in the first few minutes of reading.  Then I got a scientific education second to none, as the terror, and learning became intertwined to where you wanted to scream at the characters to "get the hell outta there !"  At no time did I find myself feeling the characters were safe, or were going to survive, but he did pull it off, and with credibility..First book by Mr. Fahy I presume, but read where a second is due out in 2010, and believe me I will be a the head of the line...
4 The idea of a lost island that has been left untouched by the rest of earth for billions of years is what drew me to this book in the first place. I was hoping that it wouldn't be another Jurassic Park -- and it wasn't."Fragment" doesn't take long to get the action started and once it starts it doesn't really stop. Suspense hangs over every chapter and there is an urgent dark foreboding that makes the story feel like a countdown to very bad things to come. I was hooked.Fahy does a pretty good job of explaining the science by weaving it into the story, though there were a few times when I felt like there was a little too much scientific explanation when I really just wanted to see what was going to happen next. I did, however, love that Fahy doesn't leave unexplained plot holes. Things that didn't quite make sense or seemed too coincidental at first were explained later on, putting to rest a few nagging questions I had (such as how an island like this could go unnoticed and unexplored for so long given satellite technology).This is a great book and I think fans of Michael Crichton's work will like Warren Fahy's work. I'm anxious to see what he has in store for us next.
5 In the acknowledgments at the end of this book there's a nod to Michael Crichton, which put a big smile on my face, as no book I have read since Jurassic Park has captivated or filled me with wonder as that book did, until this one. Don't make the mistake of thinking this is a copy, or imitation of Jurassic Park. At most it's a similar theme, but the ideas are carried forward in a new and exciting manner. It's a very smart way to turn earth into an alien planet and then explore it.I love this book. It's fun, exciting, imaginative and very quickly paced, just like Crichton's best. I read it fast, in under two days. I had such a blast with it, I can't wait to get my mitts on the sequel (Pandemonium).
3 I've read a number of reviews and comments that compare Fahy's "Fragment" with Michael Crichton and "Jurassic Park". Let's be clear..."Fragment" and "Jurassic Park" have similar themes and bare bones basic concepts. Both stories involve humans battling supernatural, prehistoric monsters and self-centered murderous villians on the remotest of islands. But beyond that, consider the comparisons complete.Don't get me wrong. I really enjoyed Fahy's debut novel. It's the perfect summertime beach or pool-side read, and it's 500 pages fly by faster than the Hender's Island Spigers rip apart  defenseless characters in Fahy's book.Fahy makes a number of attempts at incorporating scientific theory into his story, including analyses of evolution, animal reproductive patterns, and a very "Jurassic Park"-like chaos/humans-will-destory-everything-they-touch theory. These shades of Crichton were enjoyable and worked relatively seamlessly with the story, but they weren't strongly intertwined with the action and, in the end, felt forced and unnecessary.The story was interesting and exciting and some of the key characters were reasonably well developed. But character development was inconsistent and, at times, absent.The concept of "Fragment" is pretty cool. A reality TV show is following scientists on a round-the-world science-based cruise come across this ridiculously remote 2-mile wide island in the middle of the Pacific. The scientists and crew soon discover the island is full of extremely aggressive and creatively evolved creatures. Madness and mayhem soon follow as most of the cast is eaten within minutes of landing on the island.Once you throw in a couple of strong-willed and morally incorruptible good guys, and your obligatory military tough guys, along with a nasty bad guy, you've got yourself a pretty good action adventure.If you're looking for Michael Crichton, then you won't really find it in Fahy's first novel. If you're looking for a solid monster story...then this isn't a bad choice.
5 "Fragment" is the perfect novel; it is destined to be the #1 best-seller of the Summer.  I can not praise it enough.  The prologue sets the stage for impending doom; it describes true life species, such as the Chinese Northern snakehead fish, that have been removed from their natural habitats and are destroying the wildlife of the ecosystems into which they are introduced.The actual novel begins with the discovery of Henders Island in 1791.  Located 1,400 miles from the nearest land mass, it has remained isolated for centuries.  Captain Henders sends a boat to the island to retrieve water; a crew member is attacked and killed by a creature described as a "red devil."  In the present, the cast and crew of a reality show lands on the island and are slaughtered within minutes by strange, biological creatures.  Soon the United States Navy surrounds the island; scientists are sent in to investigate this new ecosystem."Fragment" is a great blend of science fiction, action and suspense with strong elements of horror, romance and fantasy.  So excited was I after reading the first one-hundred pages that I began telling all my co-workers and friends about it.  "This is going to be the best-selling novel of the Summer," I told them.  Then I briefly described the plot.  "Do you think they'll make a movie?" they always asked.  "I hope so!" would be my response.Perhaps the author, Warren Fahy, will be filling the void that was created by Michael Crichton's death.  "Fragment" has been compared to "Jurassic Park."  However, there are no dinosaurs on Henders Island.  Instead, these creatures have evolved differently from anything in our world.  They are perfect killing, feeding, breeding machines.  Their reproductive rate is extremely high because their mortality rate is high.  Nothing from our world can survive more than a few minutes on Henders island.  All creatures are a bizarre combination of mammal and crustacean.  They have numerous legs like insects, numerous eyes, multiple stomachs, and air tubes that go directly to their legs to keep them moving.  They are born pregnant.  Babies mate within the womb.This novel is an easy read despite the tremendous amount of biological jargon that is used.  (Biology was one of my favorite subjects in high school.)  It reads like non-fiction and is extremely interesting.  The characters are well drawn.  There are some, like Dr. Nell Duckworth and Dr. Geoffrey Binswanger, who are very likeable; you will cheer for them as they race against time to flee the island.  Dr. Thatcher Redmond, on the other hand, is one of the most evil, vile characters I've ever read about in a novel.If you read only one novel this Summer, "Fragment" should be the one.  It is highly recommended for all fans of science fiction, adventure and horror.  If you like Michael Crichton's "Jurassic Park" and "The Lost World," you will want to read "Fragment."  It is destined for the big screen.  It is destined to become a classic.  And I pray that someone, perhaps Steven Spielberg, makes a film based upon it.
5 This is a great first novel by Fahy. Rarely do I read a new author and feel like I won the jackpot. This book was full of adventure and excitement. The creature sketches are a great addition to the novel also. The comparison to Jurassic Park is definitely appropriate. If you love adventure thrillers by such writers as James Rollins, Michael Crichton, and Lincoln Child, then you will love this novel. It has the right blend of adventure, suspense, and science, and it is my hope that it will be a huge success with the publisher rushing to print the next novel by Fahy.
5 When I first read the description of FRAGMENT I thought that it would be yet another Jurassic Park clone, ie improbable situation, discovery, wonder, disaster and happy ending.  What I found instead was a more plausible premise than recreation of dinosaurs.  The premise here is a tiny island, well off the main shipping lines that has been isolated from the rest of the planet for millions of years giving evolution plenty of time to take a radically different path.When the novel opens in 1791 a ship visits the island in search of fresh water, and instead of wonder, finds disaster and terror immediately.  When the action shifts to the present day where a reality show, based on a research ship is looking for something to bolster their slipping ratings.  When they arrive on the island they found plenty that made them a world wide phenomenon.  The landing crew's first and last steps on the island are sent out on a live feed.  Here the novel begins to lull the reader into thinking that now we are entering into the familiar 'running around and screaming' phase but the author has a few more surprises to spring, including a major plot twist in the last few pages.While this is a time honored premise that has been around since KING KONG the author has managed to breathe new life into this well worn formula.  The science involved in presented well, in a manner that makes the premise seem plausible.  Just when the reader begins to think that the plot will now revert to the usual formula Fahy manages to toss in a new twist that totally changes everything.  This one will keep the reader turning pages to find out what will happen next far into the night.
4 Fragment caught my attention rather early on...I regularly check the 'Coming Soon' section, and as I read the plot summary, I KNEW this was something I would be buying--and then the Vine program offered it up early and my prayers were answered!Let's say up front that Fahy doesn't waste precious time getting the action going, and going good. The basic idea is rather easy, in fact as I read the summary, I wondered if it didn't sound rather corny, but never fear, Fahy makes it rather easy to accept (and in this day of Reality Show TV, and how MUCH there is, this show is FAR from difficult to believe). The TV show 'Sealife' is out on a ship called, the Trident, a long-range research ship hosting the reality program, which coincidentally is suffering from a bit of viewer slump. It started off well, but ratings have steadily been sagging and when a distress beacon is picked up, and the Trident is the only ship close enough to investigate, the television producers immediately begin to consider their diversion as more of a God-send to help them claim more interest in the show. As it turns out, the diversion really DOES help...and the trip to Henders Island, a place visited only ONCE in recorded history, turns out to be sort of a turning point for 'Sealife' and several of the crew on board the Trident...and NOT necessarily in the good sense.What would a place such as Henders Island actually be like if evolution took a different path than what we have come to know? It very well could be like what is presented in Fragment. Fahy, like Crichton before him, has obviously done a large dose of research in writing this. Another reviewer has also noted the absence of a list of references such as could routinely be found at the back of a Crichton novel would've been nice in seeing exactly WHERE some of that research came from. The science (to ME anyway) certainly seems plausible (to a certain degree, of course) and well thought-out. Before you realize it, the entire WORLD seems focused now on Henders Island, but for all the wrong reasons.It doesn't take long for the rubber to hit the pavement here, which is one of the main reasons why I earnestly look forward to whatever Mr. Fahy produces next. All in all, an exciting well-told story with a LOT of science, a TON of action and despite the obvious references to Crichton, this book is amazingly original--don't let anyone tell you differently. If you miss Crichton and LOVE a good action tale brimming with great science & creativity, I submit your next purchase really SHOULD be 'Fragment'. In short: I really loved this book.
3 A fun summer read in the genre of Jaws and Jurassic Park. It is clear where the author is headed after acknowledging Verne, Wells, Conan Doyle, and Crichton. And his story offers up similar excitement along with doses of real and pseudo-science. The book's pace picks up significantly with the introduction of "Hender" and others of his kind. It certainly seems written for the big screen or cable television and may be deserving of such a treatment.
5 I happened upon Fragment the other day in the Kindle e-book store and thought what the heck, the price is good and it seems like it could be a decent read.  So glad I was right!I agree with many others, it's fast paced and fun to read.  The science isn't overwhelming but definately adds to the book!  It's interesting and for a debut novel for a new writer, I like it!  Enough that I had to see if he had another book out and luckily Pandemonium just came out!!  I already have it on my Kindle and will read tonight!!Definately one to read if you like fast action, and fun books!
4 Fragment is a great action novel full of excitement and danger.  A fascinating scientific possibility is discovered, only to prove to be a nightmare if it ever gets loose on an unsuspecting world.  Despite the science, Fragment is an easy, fun read and a great novel to take with you on a trip.
