5 As an advanced reader growing up in a very small town, my parents gave me a note to the librarian which opened up all of the books for me to check out.  This was the first book that I checked out from the young adult section, and instantly became one of my favorites.  Through the years the story had never left me and I recently decided to buy a copy to see if it was really that good.It was indeed. Reading it again gave me the same thrill that I got the first time, only I am older now and understood more of the nuance.  It's protaganist is a teenage girl that has true strength and bravery.  This was incredibly refreshing because it was not portrayed by sassy comments in a tiresome I-am-woman-hear-me-roar dialog that many authors pass off as womanly strength.I have a hard time believing that there are only 34 reviews written about this gem but, then, I suppose the reason why it is so very appealing is because not everyone would get it.
5 I read Margaret Mahy's Carnegie-winning novel first as a teenager and again just recently, in my twenties. Despite the passage of time, I found that "The Changeover" had lost none of its potency. It's still a striking coming-of-age story, still a nail-biting supernatural thriller, still a fascinating character study, and still a dark urban fairytale that fully deserves the recognition it got at the time of its first publication back in the 1980s. It has aged remarkably well, for as Mahy points out in her postscript, there is very little use of eighties lingo or technology. This story could just as easily take place in the 21st century as it did two decades ago.The story itself is surprisingly straightforward: Laura Chant is a teenage girl who experiences "warnings" before periods of upheaval in her life, and one such warning strikes her at the opening of the book. Sure enough, on the way home from school her three year old brother Jacko is marked out by a sinister storekeeper, causing him to fall gravely ill.Recognizing that there are supernatural forces at work, Laura seeks the help of a family of witches that live in the community; for she has long-since identified her school fellow Sorenson Carlisle as a witch. He, his mother and his grandmother come up with a solution that will allow Laura to save her brother's life: become a witch herself by undergoing a "changeover". Only then will she have the power to vanquish the spirit attacking her brother's life force.It is a plot that almost seems simplistic (you'd except to see a condensed version in the teaser on the average episode ofBuffy the Vampire SlayerorSupernatural), but the power of this story is in the telling. Through her masterful use of language, Mahy's simple story conceit becomes a metaphorical coming-of-age tale in which Laura traverses the landscape of her mind in order to unlock her innate power. The integral chapter that lends the book its title deserves to be read twice over on the strength of its intensity, mystery and sheer effectiveness.Balancing out the supernatural side of things are Laura's conflicting feelings over her mother bringing home a new boyfriend and the reappearance of her absentee father, as well as the usual perplexities that beset the average teenage girl: the onset of puberty, the disillusions of adulthood, and the awareness of the opposite sex.Mahy has a gift with words, turning the subdivision of Gardendale into a dangerous fairytale realm, portraying Laura's family (her adored little brother and rather scatterbrained mother) as a household that a teenage girl would willingly fight to the death for, and bringing to life a mysterious, striking, incomprehensible male witch that repels as much as he attracts. According to Mahy's postscript, Laura was originally going to seek out the help of a female classmate, but on flipping the gender of this character to male, the novel's entire tone was changed. The chemistry between the two leads is palpable, for as a male witch grappling with a feminine heritage, Sorenson (or "Sorry" as he's nicknamed) is inevitably drawn to Laura's companionship in combating his own traumatic past and lonely present.The prose is so rich that I found during my second read that I could recall certain passages as if I'd read the book only yesterday instead of years ago, and despite knowing the conclusion, I still found my anticipation rising as the story headed toward its climax.As a kiwi, "The Changeover" will always be close to my heart considering it is set in (or was at least inspired by) the city in which I was born and raised, and was the book that made me aware that the fantasy genre is not restricted to faraway places. Mahy speaks of the "imagination displacement" she suffered from prior to the writing of "The Changeover," stemming from the experience of being a New Zealand author raised on books that were set entirely in the English countryside. Having overcome this unusual form of writer's block, "The Changeover" serves as an eye-opener for any New Zealand reader considering its blend of a familiar landscape with the wider aspects of folklore and fairytale.That's not to say that international readers are excluded. Its content transcends its location to become a story about universal emotions, experiences and ideas. Mahy's is a master storyteller, with a firm grasp of imagery and without a single wasted or superfluous word, in which Laura's mundane life is just as fascinating as the mysterious world of the Carlisle witches (of course it is, it wouldn't be worth fighting for if it wasn't). As a display of writing expertise, Mahy proves herself the well-deserved winner of the 1984 Carnegie Medal, and "The Changeover" demands a second read just to once again take you by surprise at how simultaneously simple and complex it really is.
5 I first read The Changeover when I was about twelve, and have reread it many, many times since then.  I must say some of the saucier elements of the book went straight over my head as a kid and it was a surprise to discover them when I was older!You don't have to be from New Zealand to love this book, any more than New Zealanders need to be from America to love American books.  It is truly fantastic, full of otherworldly imagery that slots in to everyday life seamlessly.  Mahy has a beautiful turn of phrase, and simple occurrences become special - losing a shoe, eating tomatoes, washing your hair - they sound so droll but become memorable moments in The Changeover.You come to truly believe that there is magic in everything, it's just that some people can see it better.  It would make a great movie, the changeover particularly would make for some fabulous special effects!
5 When a shop owner puts a stamp on the hand of her little brother, Laura's life changes abruptly. 3 year old Jacko gets sick and she is certain that the stamp is to blame. She is equally certain that Sorry Carlisle is a male witch and that her only hope of saving her brother is to join Sorry's coven.One of my childhood favourites, full of mystery and suspense. I'd recommend this one for ages 10 or 11 plus a few years. I read and reread this one several times, I never tired from the story. Don't be scared by those calling it a romance, this is so much more.
4 I read this as a middle school kid, I think, and even though the concepts were a bit scary for me, I liked the way it was written. (I have no idea if I'd enjoy it as much when judging it by my current standards, but I liked it enough to put it on an old &#34;favorite books&#34; list that is floating around in my memory boxes.) I liked that the main character's little brother was so important to her that she'd be willing to make a really big change in her life, and I liked the way that was described. The subtitle of this book is &#34;A Supernatural Romance,&#34; but I have to say I don't really remember much of that aspect of the book at all; I just remember that a dude the main character knew was helping her figure out how to become a witch (the &#34;changeover&#34; in the title) so that she would have the power to help her little brother. The romance aspect was probably something I ignored, which is not surprising for me. :)
5 From the perfectly described details of Laura Chant's everyday family life to her charmingly atypical romantic suitor to the threat of a truly sinister villain, The Changeover is a terrific coming-of-age story with a paranormal twist.  For a novel that was written twenty-six years ago, it amazes me that this book does not feel dated.  I really enjoyed this novel & look forward to reading more of Margaret Mahy's books.What I Liked:-  The beautiful and precise prose.  Even the mundane details of Laura's life are fascinating and lovely because every description is infused with personality.  From the teapot that screams as if it wishes to be put out of its misery to the suburban tract houses that all look as though they are cousins, if not siblings.  I read this book aloud to my husband & found myself stopping to re-read many passages just to enjoy the imagery.  This book is not bogged down by lengthy descriptive passages or filler.  Every word on the page is there to move the story forward or to actively enhance the atmosphere of a scene, and not a single word is wasted.-  Everything about the characters feels authentic.  From the way Laura feels about her parents' divorce  to the way she interacts with her mother and younger brother.  There is nothing forced or contrived about a single line of dialogue, and the emotional undercurrent running between each of the characters feels absolutely genuine from start to finish.  It is difficult to describe how much I adored that.-  Sorry.  He is not your standard romantic hero, but he has a quirky, self-assured charm that is all his own.  Socially awkward and notably conflicted, Sorenson Carlisle is a male witch who reads romance novels and somehow manages to be both overly confident and surprisingly vulnerable.  He is honest but not necessarily safe.  And he may have an impressive school transcript, but he still has a lot to learn when it comes to interpersonal relationships.  I've enjoyed a lot of 'broken boy' romantic heroes in various books over the years, but Sorry jumps off the page as completely unique.  I was thoroughly impressed by the way Margaret Mahy brought him to life with such an original voice, and I loved Sorry for his unfiltered honesty and his oddities.  He is not quite sure who he wants to become or how comfortable he is embracing his own humanity, but the closer he gets to Laura & the more he sees the possible consequences of losing touch with your humanity, the more he begins to open himself up to some new opportunities (even if those bring new frustrations along with them).-  Laura!  As much as I adored Sorry for his flaws, I loved Laura even more for consistently calling him out on them!  She is both an "every-girl" character with many of the standard worries and insecurities of a typical fourteen year old, and a strong, confident young woman who boldly sets out to take her fate (and her brother's fate) into her own hands.  Laura grows up a lot over the course of the novel, taking several risks and making a number of difficult decisions.  Her motivations and choices never feel artificial or unrealistic, and even the paranormal changes are used to such excellent metaphorical effect that they feel totally natural & believable.  You'll find yourself relating to her and rooting for her from the very first page to the very last.-  There is nothing fluffy about the romance in this book.  Laura and Sorry are frustrated & challenged by each other more than they swoon and sigh over each other, and that fits the characters and their situation perfectly.  I don't mean to imply that I dislike sigh-worthy, epically romantic love scenes in books.  In fact, I adore those scenes when they suit a particular story & set of characters.  In this case that wouldn't have suited the characters well at all, and I strongly respected the author's choice not to toss in a nonsensical fluff-fest.  Even Laura's mother's romantic entanglement has a decidedly practical & realistic nature to it.  And despite (or perhaps because of) the lack of fluff, I still found both relationships endearingly romantic and moving.-  The dark & remorseless villain, Carmody Braque. (&lt;-- How great is that name?!)  Not only is he sly and frightening in the spookiest of ways, but he appears in a very commonplace setting, making him twice as terrifying.  His particular style of magical wickedness is definitely the stuff of nightmares as he literally devours Laura's young brother from afar.  Creepy with a capital "C"!What I Wished:-  I wish I'd stumbled across this book ages ago!  I would have loved this book as a tween/teen & it may have led me to discover the paranormal & urban fantasy sub-genre within YA literature long before I managed to find that section on my own.-  I don't think the subtitle: "A Supernatural Romance" is entirely accurate.  In my opinion, the romance, while lovely and an enjoyable subplot, is not the main theme of this novel.  This book is about a girl transitioning into young adult territory & evolving into a new version of herself.  Yes, there is a boy who helps that change along, but he is not the primary reason for the important choices Laura makes.  He is a fairly important companion along this part of her journey, but he is not the most compelling motivation propelling her forward.  So I think the subtitle is slightly misleading and may give readers expectations for this book that they will not find fulfilled.  However, the romantic elements of The Changeover are memorable and hopeful (in a very realistic way), so perhaps readers won't feel misled by the subtitle after all.I would highly recommend this book to all readers, and I would particularly recommend it to anyone who enjoys paranormal, fantasy, or urban fantasy novels set in a realistic, non-fantastical world.  Fans of Richard Peck's Blossom Culp books may like the way Margaret Mahy mixes magic with the common, no-frills world of an intelligent teenage girl.  Fans of Meghan Whalen Turner's The Queen's Thief series, may like Margaret Mahy's precise prose that is not at all condescending to its target audience of YA readers.  And fans of Frances Hardinge's Fly By Night may enjoy Margaret Mahy's imaginative imagery.  I was surprised and pleased by how much I loved this book, and I will be bumping Margaret Mahy's other novels up several notches on my "To-read" list because I enjoyed The Changeover so much.
5 I've bought several copies. It's a fabulous concept -- wondering if stepping on the moon (which may not happen again for many decades) changes ones life, and finding that yes - it does, uniquely for each individual.  Great book for an adolescent, young person, or anyone.  Gave one to my 30yo nephew and bought another for my granddaughter when she's old enough to read it.
4 I thought it was a good book.Those are my feelings in a nutshell.I think this is a good book.One thing I would like to point out though is that Neil Armstrong was not the last member of his group to be assigned a mission.Elliott See was.Had See not been killed in a airplane accident,he would have flown on Gemini 9,the mission after Armstrong's.
1 The problem with writing a book, or a magazine article about someone else who is famous, is that often the author can't get past himself; that is, just because you (the author) think you're important for writing this book, doesn't mean anyone else does.What people want to read about, seeing this title and subtitle, is the emotional makeup of the moon astronauts: what the preparation was like, what it felt like to actually go to the moon, and especially what it was like to come back and deal with that reality. In addition, we want to read about the inner workings at NASA and see how ordinary it really was, and how subject to human pitfalls it was (as any human organization is), and perhaps to also discover the true motives behind the whole thing.But we don't get any of that here. We get a limp dishrag of a personal memoir: the author remembering the good ol' Apollo days. The interviews and accounts of the astronaughts are sparse and unsatifying like bits of orange peel in an inedible fruitcake. Each chapter drones on about the author's personal rememberances, and his thoughts about each astronaut. It's dull and has no substance.This book is about the author's thinking about the space program and the irritating fact is, no one cares about anything the author thinks about. Unless he was one of the astronauts. Read one of those books instead.
4 The last moon landing happened before I was born but it's still held a facination for me.Smith writes in an easy and often humorous style.  The book is not just a dry reiteration of facts and figures but a compassionate examination of how being a man on the moon effected the 12 men who landed on the lunar surface.  While there are lots of interesting facts and plenty to learn about NASA and the space programme, the book is really focused more on 'what happened next'.  Each of the 9 remaining moonwalker astronauts have been interviewed to varying degrees.  Armstrong, notoriously private, even answers a few (but only a few) of Smith's questions.Smith examines the impact of being on the moon and looking back at the Earth from a distance.  Each of the men have responded in different ways.  Most have been profoundly changed as a result.I found it slow going in some parts, but I do struggle with books that have a lot of names (and there are lots of names mentioned, astronauts and other NASA people) and so it could just be me.  It was very interesting though and full of insights.
5 It's hard to review this book.  Everyone agrees that it offers a fascinating insight into the astronauts who walked on the moon.  This book isn't really asking "what was it like?" because that's been done too many times.  Instead, it asked "what was it like for you?" to each astronaut, and got some interesting answers.The remainder of the book is mostly about the journey of discovery that the author takes as he realizes that it had a relatively profound effect on his own life.  Some reviewers (myself included) buy into this concept and found it made the whole package very engaging.  Others (including some of my friends) found it annoying and distracting.So, if you would rather just read biographies of astronauts, try the book about Pete Conrad.  If you ever wondered, "gosh, whatever happened to those guys?" or "well, what did it mean for the US to go to the moon anyway?" I think this is an entertaining, engrossing and ultimately enlightening read.I only gave it four and a half stars because it's not the best book I've ever read, merely one of the most memorable.
3 The Moon is back in your sign where there is a tendency to over-simplify your emotions.  Landing on the moon was our first global media event, and the various astronauts were the superstars.  From the first man to walk on the moon, Neil Armstrong, to the last one to perform that special feat, Gene Cernan, we learn about those in between.  They were Americans who risked everything to hurl out into the unknown universe as explorers of the Space Age.  None of us will forget seeing the first man on the moon and hear his words, "One small step for man, one giant leap for mankind."  He spoke in long pauses and the ordinary content made the  wait seem worth it.  In public speaking, I found that the pauses give the audience a chance to reflect on what you are saying and to understand better than if you just race through your speech.In 1960 (when Jeff and John, Jr. were born), John F. Kennedy beat Nixon by the slimmest of margins (except for Gore's non-"win" against Bush), 118,574 vote difference.  He was the immepetus we needed to thrust the United States of America as the 'leaders in Space.'These specially trained men were expertly trained astronauts who represented this country with pizazz.  In addition to Neil Armstrong, mission commander of Apollo 11, and Gene Cernan, commander of Apollo 17, we have Buzz Aldrin, pilot (reviewed a book about him not long ago), James Irwin, Charlie Duke of Apollo 11, Jack Schmitt, Apollo XVII, Alan Bean also walked on the moon, MIke Collins and Dick Gordon who did not land on the moon but contributed their expertise doing what was expected of them, and John Young, the longest serving astronaut in history.Many ignorant country people believed that the space walks were 'staged' out in the desert -- because of their distrust of our government officials.  Nixon was one you could not trust, and Lyndon Johnson was too busy with civil rights to take much interest in the space program.  Had it not been for Kennedy, it probably have petered out before anyone ever had a chance to walk on the moon.They were savvy spacemen prepared for orbiting the earth, performing essential experiments and such, but completely unprepared for fame.  They went from the sense of euphoria and awe in the black sky to ruined personal lives and divorces back on earth.  Buzz said that he'd always wanted to 'stand in' for George Clooney in Las Vegas!  They were put on the 'back burner' and had to deal with "the biggest adventure you could possibly have ... (which) became just a memory."Apollo 12 seemed to be everyone's favorite mission with Commander Pete Conrad and Lunar Module pilot, Alan Bean, who died on July 8, 1998, in a freak motorcycle accident.  Andrew Smith blends myth with the rality these human men had to face.  It is history (facts) and also a memoir of the author.  He captures the "bittersweet heroism" of these brave men who risked everything.  America needs its heroes to survive.  Don't ever forget what these men gave up for their country.
1 I found this book at a Half-Price store, and it sounded like a great premise; personal interviews with the Apollo astronauts.  However, it turns out this is much more about what the author thinks about the space program, the 60's, and pretty much everything else, than the astronauts. If I wanted to read a personal memoir on this topic, I'll read one written by an astronaut. Some people may enjoy the "everyman author puzzling his way thru a topic" format, but to me, it's waste of time and annoying. I mean, a book about the space program written by a guy so clueless that he thinks the moon always shows the same face to the earth because it doesn't spin?!  Please.  I did learn two things that I didn't know already:  1) the LM computer only had 37k memory, and 2) Alan Bean has a wonderful outlook on life.  Oh, and one more thing - that Andrew Chaikin (A Man on the Moon) is a much better space author than Andrew Smith.  This book's going back to the Half-Price store.
5 I think the premise of this book needs some explaining, because it's not simply about the nine remaining spacewalkers.  On the surface, the book documents Andrew Smith's journey as he tracks down the nine remaining (of 12) men who walked on the moon - but along the way he recounts insider information and other interviews from every facet of the 1960's space era that you can imagine; historical data, societal commentary, presidental scoop, NASA gossip, hoax theories...everything comes into play, not the least of which includes Andrew Smith's own take on everything including his emotional reactions to the interviews he undertakes.One of the main critiques of the book from other reviews I've read is Smith includes himself too much in the story...but as someone who doesn't particularly like non-fiction, I thought Smith's descriptions and feelings were what gave the story its life, and its purpose.  The ending was essentially a big summary/recap/understanding for Smith and what this journey meant to him, which I suppose is a tad bit of a letdown...but at the same time, I really found myself relating to him as a *writer* in that I would have finished my book off the same way he does, with a sense of growth and reflection.Overall I thought this was a fantastic book, really well-written, interesting etc.  My only complaint would be that sometimes it leaps all over the place so you can lose track of who he is talking about or what each chapter is supposed to focus on (each chapter is more or less about a different astronaut but there is sooooooo much more included as well).  Still I thought the book did an excellent job tackling a very complex, rich subject by trying to address as many facets of the Apollo program as possible.  The emotions Smith was feeling and the questions he was asking were very realistic and matched what I would expect myself to feel in the presence of someone who has left our humble planet.If you have any interest in the space program of the 1960's, then do yourself a favour and read this fantastic book!  I loved it and would highly reccommend it.
3 Interesting, but a bit boring in places. Not what I expected, however, moon landing junkies like myself will enjoy it.
1 I own or have read more than 50 Apollo-era astronaut biographies or auto-biographies so I know a little on the subject.  As such I was expecting to learn little about the men that author Andrew Smith writes on in "Moondust" that I didn't already know.  I mostly picked up this book because I thought it would be a fun diversion while on a trip to India and my son had checked it out from the library to help with a paper on Neil Armstrong.  However what I was NOT expecting to learn about was about the childhood of the author.  About how his boring little life was interspersed with tidbits from the moon program.Instead of "going in search" of where these former astronauts are today and relating this information in the text - a "Where are they now" story - he instead appears to decide that they are all freaks and near border-line basket cases, none of whom have found "real lives" since their daliances in space.  One is a drunk, turned pimp for space.  Another is a recluse who seems to be afraid of living.  Another has nothing else to do but sign autographs because he's either broke, starved for attention or both.  He meets Edgar Mitchell at a New Age convention (FREAK!).  He meets Dick Gordon at a Sci-Fi convention (PATHETIC FREAK!).  He manages to actually schedule a real interview (Holy Cow!) with Buzz Aldrin but openly points out to Aldrin how he feels his space exploration ideas are idiotic (ANOTHER PATHETIC FREAK!).And what else do we learn in this book?  How much the author's Las Vegas room cost and how he spent the night boozing away with total strangers (WHO CARES?!)  How he interviewed Aldrin the day after 9/11 (TWO PAGES OF AGAIN WHO CARES?!)  How the author feels a necessary backdrop to every astronaut or discussion is what HIS IMPRESSION of the thought is or what HE WAS DOING when a moonlanding was taking place (PAGES AND PAGES OF WHO CARES?!)This book is a self-serving pile of nonsense and its a wonder there are so many people who seem to have liked it.  My guess is many of these people have either never read an Apollo-era book or enjoy the thought of someone tearing people down.  It's one thing to relate the truth of the situation.  It's another to do nothing but look for flaws.  One thinks that the author should instead turn the microscope on himself to determine why he so readily wishes to turn the lives of these men touched by fate into ugly carictures of themselves.  That's what's really sad...
3 If you are a space enthusiast seeking to know the technical details, this isn't the book you want. This is the human interest, and the author can be forgiven if he doesn't get all the scientific information right. Space collectors will find it fun. For me the pleasure of it was reading about Buzz Aldrin's personable side, Bean's humility, Duke's gracious humor, and Mitchell's fearless curiosity. Treasure the time we have left with these brave explorers, fellow readers.
1 Don't buy this book if you like factual accounts.  If the author had done any real reseach at all he would not have so many errors,  and I mean an error every  5 to  10 pages !!!
5 Andrew Smith has pulled off a rare writing feat - he's got several books in one that combine into a unified whole. Firstly, this is a book about the nine still-living Apollo astronauts and what they are doing and thinking today. Viewed from thirty years away from their missions, these men's thoughts and ideas are enlightening, funny, weird, infuriating, and ultimately human. But this is also a book about what it was like to be a kid in the late 1960s and early 1970s as the moonshots were happening. Because Smith is a Brit who lived in the US at the time, we also end up with a partly international look at America's space odyssey. What became most interesting to me however, was Smith's search for "the truth" about Apollo. Alert readers with an open mind will follow Smith through a year of his life and countless meetings with astronauts and their family members, conspiracy theorists, and NASA types, all as he continually ponders aloud for us what he himself is thinking. I particularly liked how Smith used his fleeting encounters with first man Neil Armstrong as a metaphor for how his personal reflections about Apollo changed throughout his year on the road-what great writing.Moondust is a remarkable book. I read at least a book a week (I'm also an author), and Moondust is probably the best book I've read in two years.  Really!However, if you are a techno weenie looking for minutia on Apollo, do yourself the favor and don't read this book. And if you are an Apollo technical buff and you do read it, please don't write a whiney review lamenting the technical details. This is not a technical book and it is not for you.I originally picked this book up because like many people my age, I was transfixed by Apollo as a kid (I was nine years old when Apollo 11 went up). I also happen to share a name with Apollo 15 moonwalker David Scott which in elementary school was a weird sort of fame. (I remember watching with my classmates at an assembly when the helicopter was picking up Scott after splashdown and he was dunked in the water. The TV announcer said "it looks like David Scott got wet" which provided all sorts of hilarity for weeks among my peers.)But like Smith, Apollo had kind of faded into memory as an almost surreal set of events for me. That he spent a year not only searching out what the moonmen themselves thought but also what HE thought, made Moondust remarkable for me. Thank you Andrew Smith for writing this.
5 Having been a impressionable young child when the moonlandings occured; I, like so many others, have read just about every available book on the Apollo program. But none like this.  While so many of the books (biographies included) involve the technical aspects of Apollo; very few touch on the emotional chord it stuck with so many of us.  This book did all that and more.  Andrew Smith began a personal odessey to meet and talk to each of the surviving moonwalkers and in the process found out more about himself (and as I discovered I did as well).One of the more open, refreshing, books I've read on Apollo to date.  Thoroughly Enjoyable!
3 Twelve men stood on the surface of the moon.  Nine are still living.  Where are they now?  This book is the very rambling account of Andrew Smith's life and times, and his personal encounters with the Apollo astronauts.The subject matter is very engaging and many passages evoke vivid images, especially when they are about the Apollo program.  But Andrew Smith seems to think we're as fascinated by HIM as by the astronauts - for page after page we're treated to stories of HIS childhood, HIS experiences, HIS likes/dislikes, HIS favorite music, HIS travels down the highway, etc.  In this type of book, the author should be invisible, a transparent lens bringing the subject into clear focus.  But Andrew Smith's lens is so covered with his own fingerprints that the story of the astronauts is badly blurred and frustrating to read.The uncertain clarity also affects the focus of the book - is it about the nine living men who actually stood on the moon surface, or the 18 who were on the Apollo missions?  Or everyone in the space program?  Or about what the space program means to Andrew Smith?  Why are there only eight astronauts pictured on the cover, instead of the nine?  A few more photos, showing the aged astronauts now for example, would also have been very interesting (there are NO photos in the book).  I think it also would have been improved if we had heard about the astronauts in some kind of chronological or mission order - instead, true to the author's self-referential approach, we meet them in the haphazard order of his wanderings.  I wonder if the author originally set out to write about the astronauts, but didn't come up with that much material and so he decided to write instead about himself searching for the astronauts.Still, despite the author's obession with himself, the story of the Apollo astronauts was interesting, a sobering reminder that no matter what our shining achievements, every one of us has a date with old age and death.
4 An interesting book from a uniquely different perspective.  It "tries" to answer the question what it felt like to walk on the Moon, from those that actually did it.  In this objective, it does not succeed, but then those men (9 still living) are not all that open about their "feelings" or they would never been allowed in a high explosive fueled spaceship, let alone astronauts explorers of the Moon.This book does succeed in allowing us to get to know these Moonwalkers better than they themselves or NASA ever allowed.  Most have simply faded away from the spotlight in some rather mundane form of normal human existence.  I enjoyed what little time the spotlight was focused on each of them and what they had to say for the sake of future generations and readers of this book.  Some certainly were more colorful and outspoken or controversial than others, but all had something to say of a personal nature either before or after their missions in space.  Sadly, most had far less to say about their actual missions in space.  I suspect the author intentionally deemphasized this aspect, since many other books have been written on those missions, several of which by the astronauts themselves.They all seem to share a one common view, and what a pity, that NASA, or more accurately, the United States government and its taypayer citizens, gave up on space travel, just when Apollo enabled the astronauts to reach for the stars.  It is almost inconceivable that mankind has not seen fit to revisited the Moon in nearly 35 years, (Apollo 17 was the last in December of 1972), nor commission and/or fund a new manned mission to Mars.  What are we waiting for?With something that adventurous (and dangerous) still held in abeyance, seemingly indefinitely (or in the words of one Moonwalker, probably will not happen for at least another 100 to 150 years), all we have till then is plenty of time to study the past.  These men were and still are the first real hero representative of planel Earth; their accomplishments are and will forever be legendary.  With a quarter of them already gone, we are fortune to still have most of them with us and all too briefly to have shared their extraordinary lives in such a delightful book as this, Moondust by Andrew Smith.
4 An obvious space-phile, journalist Andrew Smith has a fascinating idea at the heart of this book - what was going through the minds of the Apollo astronauts as they were hovering over and landing on the moon and how have their lives been affected by such a momentous event. In an ambitious attempt to provide something of a partial sequel to Thomas Wolfe's "The Right Stuff", Smith ventures forth to detail the experiences of the surviving lunar astronauts within the context of the political and cultural environment that produced the space program. For those of us baby boomers who lived through the extensive television coverage of the space flights in the late 1960's and early 1970's, the subject makes for often enlightening though sometimes rather mundane reading about the evolving lives of the astronauts.Unsurprisingly, all have been and the survivors continue to be space enthusiasts with some like Apollo 11's Buzz Aldrin pushing heartily for renewed investment into space exploration. The author finds interesting common factors among the astronauts - Type-A personalities, either the first or only son in a family, overachievers when it came to scholastic and academic recognition. However, for all their notoriety at the time, they all met challenges once they literally came back to earth. Like an episode of VH-1's "Behind the Music", their rock star-level fame plummeted as government backing diminished, and the effects were devastating for some with accounts of mental breakdowns, divorces and alcoholism detailed. Among the trio that makes up the Apollo mission, Smith also notices a clear distinction between lunar module pilots and the other two personnel on board, the mission commanders and command module pilots. The former tend toward the broader picture of what the missions mean and what may be the metaphysical nature of the journey. Aldrin, for example, shows himself to have a mystical side as a Freemason. When he was on the surface of the moon, he made statements about God and celebrated the Sacrament of Holy Communion. Apollo 14's Edgar Mitchell has an intense interest in consciousness and paranormal phenomena and even conducted unauthorized ESP experiments on the moon.The commanders and command module pilots, on the other hand, are focused on the mission so completely that they show little evidence of any personal impact. In some cases like Neil Armstrong, there persists a cloud of anonymity about what it is like to be the first man to step foot on another entity of space. In the case of the command module pilot, the lack of an encompassing spirituality obviously has to do with the fact that he does not get to share in the lunar landing experience. For all the insight the author provides on these men, Smith seems just as intent on personalizing his research to the point of sharing his own personal journey with us. This is where his various detours become a bit frustrating and make the narrative feel meandering when it should have greater momentum. Regardless, the extensive interviews he conducts with the surviving astronauts and intimate family members yield some intriguing findings. His eminently readable book provides interest for anyone who has a vivid memory of the adventure and glamour associated with the space program.
4 Andrew Smith was spurred into this project after meeting with moonwalker Charlie Duke in 1999. During that meeting Duke received news that Pete Conrad of Apollo 12 had died of injuries from a motorcycle accident. Of the twelve original lunar surface explorers, three were now dead. Smith set out to find each of the surviving nine and to query them about what they had done, what it had meant and what it still means.Like Mickey Rooney doing those cheesy life insurance commercials, Smith found many Apollo astronauts hawking their signatures and capitalizing on their names, even as men in their seventies. Astronauts, even moonwalkers, were paid about the same as a school teacher. Marriages could not manage the strain of the training and the time away from family. When the Apollo program was cancelled these guys were out of work, and the subsequent years were often not rosy.The cultural meaning of Apollo was more than the official line, by the end becoming far more artistic and spiritual than simply a technical and political space race. I was pleased to find Smith come to that realization.
4 Several other reviews have highlighted technical inaccuracies in Andrew Smith's take on the Apollo Program, and I'd agree that there are numerous better texts for those who want to know the facts.  However, that entirely misses the point of what Smith has tried to do here."Moondust" seems to have two missions: one is to capture the thoughts of the remaining moonwalkers, with several decades of perspective on the actual events (and perhaps some inaccurate memories?), before the last of them joins those who have already died.  He rightly assesses that the tiny corps of men who walked on the moon--a group that averaged about 40 years of age at the time--are all now senior citizens who have outlived their individual "life expectancy at birth."The other purpose relates to understanding the impact of the Space Program on those involved with it, and on the rest of us.  As someone who turned 12 a month after the first moon landing, my disappointment that we abandoned this dream is as great as that of any 1960-70s radical who still can't believe the Revolution never came.  Smith does a fine job of stirring up memories and trying to make sense of them.If non-linear story-telling drives you nuts, avoid "Moondust."  But if you want an interesting, quirky history of the space program from someone who, while hardly a space enthusiast, was nevertheless moved by the experience, then give this enjoyable book a try.
4 I worked at the Cape from 65-68, part of the time at Pad 37. So part of my fascination with this book is that it provides  a journey down memory lane and I think he nails the the optimistic and very special feeling that enveloped the program. What really fascinated me about this account, however, is that it can be read on a number of different levels. On the surface it describes the personalities, memories and foibles of the all too human astranauts. On another level the author tries to find the reason for this most audacious and monumental engineering feat. You can look at the pyramids today and wonder at the engineering and organizational genius that put them together, but what would implore a society to expend the huge resources to build them. I don't think he ever gets to a suitable answer and leaves that question open. I have always been struck by the mythological aspects of the Apollo program.In essense we are acting out the hero's journey into the unknown. In the myth the hero is supposed to return and impart the knowledge he has gained to save his society or mankind. So far this hasn't happened but some of the quotes from Mitchell and Smith allude to the programs real legacy as being the vision of earth as a tiny oasis in the vast black and lifeless cosmic void. We went into the heavens to search for knowledge of where we belong in the universe and found that our heaven, our paradise, where we belong is right here on earth. This is a book you can think about long after you close the cover
5 The first moon landing was one of the first worldwide media events (but not, as some claim, the very first -- what about, for example, the Kennedy assasination?). As such, it was new in that in some way we all participated in it. It's one of my earliest memories, and I recall being brought downstairs to the aging, high-pitched black and white TV to see some blurry shots of the first step, I recall that it was a big topic at school & I recall getting an astronaut mug from my usually thrifty father with Armstrong etc. on it. What was different about all this was that in some way we personally participated in this vicarious media event. So Andrew Smith's approach -- part memoir, part journalism -- seems entirely appropriate to me. The moon landings were, after all, as much about their effect on us personally and individually as about what was going on out there in space.This is a great book that stays with the reader after the reading and into which Smith does not overly inject himself. Rather, he successfully conjures up the feeling of the late 1960s and early 1970s by showing it to us through his eyes.The book loses focus somewhat in the last third and lacks a really strong ending, but it's so good elsewhere that it's still a great read. At times, perhaps Smith doesn't quite "get" all of the astronauts he interviews, maybe he's a tad patronizing  toward them in a couple of places and maybe inadvertently he shows his own smallness alongside them once or twice. But he's hardly the first journalist to commit any of these sins and it's still a fine read.The style is what my father used to call "Sunday supplement," i.e. the type of writing you get in the glossy magazine that comes with the Sunday newspaper. That can be a very slick, competent style and Smith executes it very well.This is not an in-depth technical or even historical account -- it's really an extended think-piece, and Smith is at his absolute best when he's pondering why we went (his thoughts on Kennedy in particular are striking), what the result was and how it affected both those who went and ourselves.He pays sufficient but not excessive attention to the conspiracy theories and that so many now believe we didn't go is, after all, an important reflection on us and on the moon venture.I liked that Smith felt free to digress beyond the moonwalkers into other people connected to the venture who interested him. He did this in a disciplined way so that it's not annoying. It was a writing strength to allow himself to do this (digress), not a weakness.Some of the vignettes of the individual moonwalkers are outstanding. The one of John Young is the weakest, and I really felt that it mostly showed Smith as a lesser intellect really not trying quite hard enough with his Young profile.But, again, this is overall an outstanding book, especially the first two thirds, and very well worth the read. An original, well-executed idea.
3 Moon Dust is a good book.  Andrew Smith should be praised for the idea for this book and his doggedness is hunting down the moon-walking astronauts.  The thoughts that he teases out of them, and some of his conclusions, are very interesting.  However, this book loses two stars for the following reasons:1) Why do so many nonfiction books have to become memoirs?  Frankly, who cares about Smith's childhood and how it relates to the moon walkers?  I bought the book to read about Aldrin and Scott and Armstrong and others. Yet, we have to wade through pages and pages of how the moon walk affected him.  Consequently, Smith gets in the way of the story about these fascinating men.2) The editor of this book must be overworked, because he or she forgot that some photos and charts would complement the text.  How about photos of the spacecraft or the actual moon walks or the community where these guys lived? I'd think NASA gives away these photos for free.  Secondly, how about a chart or two detailing which astronauts flew with Mercury or Gemini or Apollo so we can keep the players straight -- Who were the lunar module pilots? Who were the mission commanders?If you are interested in the moon walk, the book is worth buying. I'd suggest skipping the memoir sections.
5 This book might have been entitled, 'Whatever Happened To The Men who Walked on the Moon.' In it Mr. Smith traces down the remaining nine of the twelve people who went to the moon as part of the Apollo project.When we were going to the moon most of us felt that it was just the beginning of the manned exploration of space. We had been to the moon, could Mars be far behind? There was a great sense of dissatisfaction on my part, and even more on the part of these men to find that somewhere along the way the rest of the country lost interest. The vision was lost. The modest amount of money being spent on NASA, on all scientific research was looked upon as another wasteful Government project when 'so much needs to be done for the poor on Earth.'I was struck by the simularity between the let down these men felt with the feelings of the people coming back from Vietnam. These people wanted the Moon so badly that they devoted their lives to getting there. Then a 'Thank you, but we don't need you any more.'Just a couple of days ago NASA announced that their next ship to go to the moon is named Orion. It looks a lot like a bigger Aopllo and is supposed to make the trip before 2015. I hope I'm still around to see it.
5 This is a remarkable book.  However, it's almost as important to understand what it is not as it is to think about what it is.Most importantly, this is not a technical account of the US manned space program.  It does not chronicle the program in detail, and it does not discuss the equipment in any substantial way.  In fact, it contains a number of factual errors, some of them jarring.  But they don't really matter, because of what the book is."Moondust" is in part an attempt to answer a simple question that, oddly, hasn't been dealt with previously:  After you go to the moon, what do you do next?  The author managed to talk to all nine surviving moon walkers-- even the almost reclusive Neil Armstrong and David Scott-- as well as many other Apollo, Gemini, and Mercury astronauts, program technical staff, and family members.The result is a fascinating study of how people dealt with being part of one of the most remarkable events in human history and how they've been dealing with the aftermath of those events in the years since they happened.  Since these are human beings, it's not too surprising to learn that some have handled their lives well, while others haven't.  The author deals with both types of people with understanding, compassion, and dignity.  It would have been very easy for him to do a sort of celebrity expose, but he didn't."Moondust" is also in part a memoir and personal essay.  The author is a British journalist who lived in the US during the Apollo era.  The book is a sort of quest for an understanding of the meaning of the moon landings.  Why did they seem so important at the time?  Were they really  important at all?  Were they worth the effort, money, and lives expended?His general answer is yes, it was worth everything it took.  It was a nearly perfect expression of human ambition and faith in progress in the context of its time.  However, the success of the program is also a cautionary tale; he argues that in reality, the success of Apollo actually killed manned space exploration for at least four decades and maybe permanently.  In short, we need to be careful about what we wish for, because we may get it.  (An interesting aside:  even today, many people criticize the expense of the moon landings.  However, the entire Mercury, Gemini, and Apollo programs cost each American a bit over $1 per month for their duration.  The contemporaneous Vietnam War cost each American about $10 per month.)If you are looking for a history of or a technical explanation of the moon landings, this is not the book for you.  However, if you are looking for a discussion of how the moon landings fit into the context of the times and into a human context, this book will be richly rewarding.  It offers a lot to think about.  And the effort that thinking requires is well worth it.
5 From the very first page I was hooked on the book and Andrew Smith's conversational style.  By the end of the book I felt I had gotten to know Mr. Smith and the Apollo astronauts as more than just heroic figures of a mythic event.If someone is looking for the history of the space race, Apollo or how a man walked on the moon, they will not find it here.  What Mr. Smith does so well is to give people an insight into the personalities of the men who set foot where no other human has had the chance.  The book is also as much an exploration of the men of Apollo as it is the journey and memoir of Mr. Smith to understand how this one era from his childhood effected his life and allows the readers to reflect on their own experience.I was born after the end of the Apollo Mission and I never gave much thought to the men who traveled beyond earth's orbit.  So I was somewhat surprised by just how much the I was captivated by the picture Mr. Smith painted of these men and how the experience not only uniquely effected each life and philosophy but also societies perceptions.  At the end of the book I was left with an appreciation for all these men and their experience (both on the moon and after) and also the desire to carry on the conversation with them that Mr. Smith began.In the publisher synopsis they state the question "Where do you go after you've been to the Moon?" would prove troubling for the astronauts but I don't think the book is some much about "where" but about "how" - How does it feel to walk on the earth after you've seen it from the moon?
3 I own a gazillion books about the space race, This one is different. It is to be read for the soul searching of both the author and the moonwalked subjects. I was expecting a "see how bad they have and how hard they fell" kind of commentary. Instead the author succeeded in connecting with the doubts and angst of the surviving moonwalkers. Nice.Look elsewhere if you want a blow by blow recount of which switch was tripped and which one wasn't on the way to and from Luna. I suspect the author used Tom Hanks' series as primary background material for the technical stuff. Overlook this and you're left with a good take on what became of the only folks who stood on another world and looked at us.
5 It has become all too common for non-fiction narratives to be written in the form of the author's &#34;quest for the story&#34; (and, coincidentally, for him/herself). Probably the whole format ought to be banished for anything but extremely occasional use; but I have to admit that Andrew Smith's &#34;Moondust&#34; offers an occasion where it works, because some of the surviving moonwalkers were quite hard for Smith to snare, and their elusiveness is actually central rather than incidental. (Where have you gone, Neil Armstrong?) The quest for the story here is fascinating, step by step, and the material that comes out of it is enthralling. A book justifies its structure by delivering the goods, and &#34;Moondust&#34; does just that.
3 An intriguing idea for a book which asks the question: When you've gone to the moon, what else do you do?  Unfortunately, the author wasn't able to talk to all 12 of the astronauts who walked on the moon (Conrad, Irwin and Shepard are dead, Neil Armstrong unavailable) but he did get fascinating portraits of the remaining astronauts and their introspections about walking on the moon and their lives (and divorces) when they returned.Author Smith does put into perspective what the Apollo program achieved, its goals and why further flights were canceled.  He spends far too much time comparing the Apollo flights with the 60's cultural upheavel and his own boring (and unnecessary) reminiscences.Worth reading just for the histories of these men and their comments about the program that sent them to the moon.
3 I'm not sure what I expected from this book, I'm not really a techie and have a basic level of knowledge about this subject, I found this book fine but not overly exciting
5 Twelve astronauts participated in the Apollo Moon landings: today nine are still living, and are revealed here in MOONDUST, a probe of NASA dreams, achievements, and expectations. The examinations of the astronauts and their world considers how the Apollo program's demise reflected an end to the optimistic atmosphere of the space program in general, and its effect on the original Moonwalkers. An engrossing blend of biography, history and science reflects the achievements of a program and its effects on those who made it their lives when the world moved on.Diane C. DonovanCalifornia Bookwatch
2 This book turned out to be more about the author than about the astronauts.  It was disappointing.  The book was also hard to finish.  It was uninteresting in most parts.  Not recommended if you are looking for insight on the astronauts.
5 What do you get when you mix Cold War paranoia, political agendas, type A++ personalities (the astronauts), hoax theorists, public fears and emotions, and any number of concurrent themes from the '60s thru the present?Moondust.Whether you were glued to the TV watching Neil Armstrong set foot on the moon, or think it was all a hoax, I think you'll find this to be an entertaining book.
4 "Moondust" is an interesting book. Having some notable errors of fact, it nonetheless captures much that is important in the popular conception of the Moon landings. Part memoir, journalist Andrew Smith began his quest to understanding the meaning of Apollo in 1999 when he interviewed Charlie Duke, a member of the Apollo 16 crew, and was touched by his admission that "Now there's only nine of us," following the death of Pete Conrad in a motorcycle accident. Smith realized, as did Duke, that not too far in the future none of the moonwalkers would be alive. At that time Apollo would truly be an event in history known only from a distance.This set Smith on a course to interview the remaining Apollo astronauts, seeking to learn how their lives had changed because of the experience. This book is a remarkable statement of the lives of this elite group of Americans. Some remain household names, such as Neil Armstrong, who has carried his celebrity experience with both dignity and honor. Many are unknown to all except the space community. Some are garrulous and easy to talk to, others are aloof and guarded. Smith found that all were fundamentally changed by the Apollo experience.Smith's discussion of Buzz Aldrin was especially fascinating. He spent considerable time with Aldrin and talked with him about his life, work, and dreams. Since returning to Earth on Apollo 11 Aldrin struggled with alcoholism, a divorce, and an unending desire to open the space frontier. He has constantly sought to find ways to continue his status as a leader in the spaceflight world. At a fundamental level, we learn in "Moondust," Aldrin was like so many other true believers in space exploration. Apollo and its promise of humanity moving out into the solar system excited him. Aldrin was the epitome of Smith's quote from journalist Jim Oberg, "A lot of guys at NASA thought that the goal was space exploration and colonisation of the Universe, and they all had their hearts broken" (p. 296). Political leaders enthused spaceflight advocates with Apollo only to "pull the rug out from under them." Those who believe that humanity's future lies in space, such as Aldrin, have spent the last thirty years trying to deal with some believe was a betrayal.Most interesting, Andrew Smith offers observations on the role of Apollo in the modern world. He wrote that "Apollo seems to me to be the most perfect imaginable expression, embodiment, symbol, of the twentieth century's central contradiction: namely, that the more we put our faith in reason and its declared representatives, that the more irrational our world became" (p. 295). As only one example among many, he noted that our science and technology has made our lives more abundant than ever but our dissatisfaction has never been greater. "It's a cautionary tale about that most fundamentally human of human tragedies," he writes, "wanting something so badly that you end up destroying it" (p. 295). For Smith, the success of Apollo "killed `manned' deep-space exploration, stone dead, for at least the next dour decades and probably many more" (p. 295).Finally, Smith comments on the reason for undertaking Apollo. What was the United States trying to prove? Certainly it was a cold war initiative; a surrogate for war. But beyond that, he finds an answer in the motives of John Kennedy. "JFK wanted something to capture the global imagination, and to excite his own people, and he found it" (p. 297). Smith asserts that any discussion of the practical results of Apollo are irrelevant because it was never about practicality. Astronaut Joseph Allen said it best in a comment reported in "Moondust": "With all the arguments, pro and con, for going to the Moon, no one suggested that we should do it to look at the Earth. But that may in fact be the one important reason" (p. 297). As Smith concludes, "For all of Apollo's technological wonder, it was as primitive as song. It meant nothing. And everything....Was Apollo worth all the effort and expense? If it had been about the Moon, the answer would be no, but it wasn't, it was about the Earth. The answer is yes" (pp. 297-98).There is much to ponder in this book. It may be read on several levels. There are interesting and entertaining stories from the astronauts and what they have been doing since the end of Apollo. There are observations on spaceflight-past, present, and future. But there are also efforts to situate the Apollo program into the larger rubric of modern society and to understand its relationship to humanity as it stands at the threshold of the twenty-first century. Some of what Smith writes is depressing, as in the case of the lost promise that was Apollo. Some of it is exhilarating because of what Apollo taught humanity about itself. All of it is worth considering.
1 This book could have been terrific. Just think, there are people here on Earth who once stood on the Moon! What was it like? How did they cope back on Earth? Is life utterly boring for them now?Unfortunately, while failing to answer these questions, Smith writes tediously about himself and his life as a boy in the sixties. There's nothing necessarily wrong with that, but his memoirs are utterly tedious and cliched.No wonder Neil Armstrong has become something of a recluse if journalists like this are always hounding him!
4 First of all, my criticisms to follow aside, "Moondust: In Search of the Men Who Fell to Earth" is a very good book. Author Andrew Smith's idea of personally contacting the nine still-living Apollo astronauts who landed on the moon (out of a total of 12--three have died), to learn how the experience affected them, is intriguing.We follow Smith on a journey of discovery across America in search of the sometimes-elusive "moonwalkers." With persistence, dedication and luck, he eventually manages to interview Buzz Aldrin (Apollo 11), Neil Armstrong (11), Alan Bean (12), Gene Cernan (17), Charlie Duke (16), Ed Mitchell (14), Jack Schmidt (17), Dave Scott (15) and John Young (16). What he found by talking with these men can't be summarized in a short review. It's the subject of the book itself, and an excellent reason to read it for anyone who's interested in something beyond the typical astronaut memoir.The story of how the "moonwalkers" coped with their return to earth, and of the difficult psychological and emotional adjustments that they had to make when they realized that nothing they could possibly do in the future could ever top what they'd already done, is absolutely fascinating. For me, "Moondust" brought these larger-than-life explorers down to a level where I felt I could understand and relate to them as real people. As Smith correctly notes, when these nine men are gone, there will be NO ONE on earth who has ventured further from our fragile blue planet than a low-altitude orbit--a mere couple of hundred miles, as compared to the 240,000-mile lunar distance. There will be NO ONE on earth who has seen with his (or her) own eyes our home as a full sphere, glowing like a jewel against the blackness of infinity. An important part of the human race will die along with the last Apollo moonwalker.So "Moondust" is well worth a read, and I heartily recommend it. It has a few technical errors, as do many other spaceflight books. The Apollo project is one of the best-documented events in human history, and yet many authors still get it wrong when they try to describe the technology that got us to the moon and back. While "Moondust" is not nearly as bad as "For All Mankind" or "Too Far From Home," it still has some errors. But I won't belabor the point, since the book is otherwise so excellent.
5 This book begins with the meeting of Frederick The Great and Johann Sebastian Bach and ends with it.Between these two 'bookends' the author tells of the lives of both men in such a lucid way that they nearly come alive for the reader.  This book is a combination of history, biography, music commentary, geneology of the two men, all woven together in a fine tapestry.  The author manages to pack a lot of information in a relatively short book, and does it in a way that is far from fragmentary.  It is a most engaging narrative written with great style.And in the end, a meeting that can be viewed as a way for the Great Frederick to stump the Great Bach, ends up with "Old Bach" besting the plan.  Bach had to sit and play even before he could refresh himself from his long trip, and improvised on a very complicated theme given by Frederick.  And as if that wasn't enough, after Bach returned home he wrote 'A Musical Offering', a set of dazzling pieces based on that complicated theme.This book combines two of my main interests, history and music.  I started reading it on a very hot summer Saturday, and was so captivated by it, read straight through the rest of the day.  A most enjoyable way to beat the summer heat!Most highly recommended!
4 In response to Melcanthon's scathing review, I feel it's necessary to correct some of his/her, ahem, corrections.  While Zwingli wasn't an Anabaptist (capital A), he was an anabaptist in the general sense that he didn't believe in infant baptism. (Please to note: Zwingli's Reformers went on to severely persecute the Anabaptists.)  Whereas Muentzer can definitively be associated with the Anabaptists - he went a step further & was, even for a radical sect such as the Anabaptists, considered a bit extreme.And it is a gross misreading of this book to claim that "Gott ist Mein Konig" was "radical" - I believe Mr. Gaines' point was that JSB was having a bit of subtle fun at the expense of the burghers.Although this book certainly has its moments of grandiose inference, it's not as mistaken as other reviewers would have it seem. It's a thoroughly enjoyable read - the historical parts are notable for their playful colloquialism & the musical portions seem to be where Gaines shines.All-in-all, not a bad book, certainly a fun, quick read for any Bach lover, a bit scarce on the Frederick II of Prussia bits.  But, if you're a Fritz fan & want a love-fest, read Nancy Mitford.
5 This book begins and ends with the challenge issued by Frederick the Great of Prussia to Johann Sebastian Bach:  a 21-note theme designed to resist having the rules of counterpoint applied to it.  Bach was to improvise a three-part fugue on the theme.  When he accomplished this to the astonishment of all gathered, Frederick upped the ante:  make it six-part.  Well, that took a little longer -- two weeks -- and became the Musical Offering, a thirteen-movement rebuke-in-music to the king.The book probes deeply into the events leading to the challenge.  Bach, to the author Gaines, represents the Age of Faith, while Frederick represents the Age of Reason.  We learn all about the history behind these two ways of thinking about the world as well as each man's individual history.Besides being a book about Bach and about Frederick, this book delves into the structure of Bach's music and what he was trying to say with it.  It also explores the history of the Germanic states around the time of Frederick.  Toss in the influence of the church, philosophers of the time, scientists, thinkers, and musicians (including Bach's sons), and you have a rich story that goes beyond music, or rather, one that infuses music into every aspect of the universe (indeed, one of the theories of Bach's time was that the universe resonated with a perfect harmony).It's a book about the clash between two men who represented two different worlds, but it's so much more than that.  It's easy to read, impeccably researched, and even witty, and touched on so many topics -- religious, geopolitical, philosophical, as well as musical -- that I couldn't imagine just one book covering.I'm a musician myself (though somewhat of a hack).  I've played some of Bach's pieces, but never really appreciated what he was trying to say in them.  I'm looking forward to approaching them again with this new information.  My personal recording collection doesn't currently contain much Bach, but with the selective discography at the back of this book, you can bet that'll be changing!I've also visited Sanssouci (Frederick's palace in Potsdam, which is just as over-the-top as the book describes).  Should I ever find myself back there, I'll certainly see it from a more "enlightened" viewpoint.
5 Simply put: This is one of the great books on music. A must read for composers, conductors, soloists, orchestral players and every one who has ever tried to play and instrument.
4 Evening in the Palace of Reason is a joint biography of J. S. Bach and Frederick the Great-two prominent, and very different, historical figures. Gaines begins his tale with their first and only meeting. Frederick, the Enlightenment's poster child, scorns Bach and his music as old fashioned, unsightly and-worst of all- religious. He presents Bach with two musical challenges, which Bach responds to in his typical fashion.After this initial introduction, Gaines begins the biographies of these two great men, recording their extreme dissimilarities and showing how these would culminate into Fredrick's difficult test, and Bach's equally difficult rejoinder. Into their stories, Gaines weaves many different threads-musical history, musical theory, theology, religious history, philosophy and the basic history of their time and place-to create a complex background on which to place the two, making for a detailed and fascinating story.There were few "dull" places, though I did find some of the music theory hard-going, due to my lack of pre-knowledge. However, I came away from reading Evening in the Palace of Reason with a firmer grasp of not only Bach and Frederick, but counterpoint, Lutheranism, the 18th century, Prussian history and many more things I knew nothing about before I picked up the book!Though this is a scholarly work, Gaines did not target a purely scholarly audience, and as a result it can be enjoyed by layperson or historian alike.I did find a few faults with this work, the most aggrieving being the lack of dates. Though I am a history enthusiast myself, I still need solid, concrete dates to place an incident within the framework of what was occurring in other parts of the world. Despite knowing when the Enlightenment "occurred", I would have preferred dates on the essential issues, such as the year of their births, the year in which they met, the year in which anything occurred. I found this lack of dates to be a continual frustration.Otherwise, except for a few passages that were simply not well written, Gaines has done an admirable job with Evening in the Palace of Reason. This is a great read for amateur social or music historians, or biography aficionados. I thoroughly enjoyed it and rate it a solid four out of five.
5 "Evening in the Palace of Reason" explores Bach's Musical Offering in incredible depth.  What brought forth Bach's "Offering" of such unimaginable complexity?  An annoyed genius--you just have to love that.  For years I have read biography after biography (with one sterling exception--see my early reviews) that portray Bach as a kind of small town savant who was later and fortunately "discovered."  Oh, so far from the truth...Mr. Gaines reminds us that Bach was at the very center of his world--that Bach embodied the ideals of the Baroque.  For this reason the juxtaposition of Bach and Frederick the Great is an excellent vehicle for demonstrating the ideas that were the power behind Bach's transcendent music.  The reader is shown that Bach was no less a King in his own fashion than was Frederick--instead of armies to project power, Bach had an absolute mastery of musical art that despite the passage of 250 years still speaks to billions of people.  What this book convincingly argues is that Bach was quite aware of his power and the supremacy of his beliefs and that he used the Offering to send a message.In visiting Frederick's palace, Bach not only accepted the challenge he knew was coming but he so conquered the rigged game that the other side figuratively left and went home.  I had no idea how messed up King Frederick really was, even if he could play a passable flute--this is the kind of "x-files" history that puts the great ideas of history in context and is fun to read.In reviewing the aged Bach's life, Mr. Gaines leads one to consider the loneliness of a man who knew that he could speak a language of eternal beauty that few people had the patience to hear.  We all know that Bach had a temper and demanded excellence from students and justice from his employers; however, in reading this book we are introduced to the mature Bach so confident in his power that he delivered a clear rebuke to a King.Mr. Gaines makes a compelling argument that perhaps our culture could stand to return to those absolute truths that so moved Bach.  That constraint and limitations can bring forth sublime creations denied to those who throw off the perceived shackles of convention.  Highly recommended and a must-read for any disciple of Bach.
5 Any music student who has studied the life of Johann Sebastian Bach knows the basic tale of how the Musical Offering was created--how Bach traveled to the court of Frederick the Great of Prussia in 1747, how he tried the newfangled Silbermann pianofortes, how the monarch gave him a theme on which to improvise, and how Bach after his return home used the theme as a basis for one of his most intricate collections of contrapuntal compositions.In this well-crafted and smoothly written popular history, James Gaines fleshes out the personages involved, contrasting the eventful, troubled life of Frederick with Bach's workaday existence as music director of St. Thomas' School in Leipzig. Gaines portrays the meeting of these two men as a symbolic collision between the rising ideas of the Enlightenment and the last gasp of the old Lutheran faith and high Baroque musical language. Though there is little original research, and some necessary speculation about states of minds of people who left scanty personal records (including Bach himself), Gaines by and large succeeds not only at bringing history to life, but also in elucidating, in a clear and non-technical manner, the greatness of Bach's music. He has written a book  that appeals to music lovers and history buffs alike.
1 What an embarrassing disaster for this author and publisher. Had they bothered to have the book read by anyone who knows anything about German history, they would have gotten some helpful comments. Gaines reduces the very real statebuilding accomplishments of the Hohenzollern family to a mixture of scurrilous gossip and prurient commentary. There are numerous mistakes in the part of the book that have to do with Protestant history (e.g., neither Ulrich Zwingli nor Thomas Muentzer were Anabaptists), when the author is not merely repeating nostalgic hearsay about its various events. He is totally ignorant of the social context of a number of the compositions he discusses (e.g., saying it that was daring of Bach to compose a piece with the title "God is my kind" for a civic occasion--actually, such pieces were customary and commissioned in order to heighten the civic consciousness of the burghers who sponsored them). After 150 pp. of nonsense and error, I was no longer sympathetic to his larger argument. Too bad the publisher didn't find a better manuscript on early modern German cultural history, since it is a fascinating topic. Unfortunately reading this book conveys no sense of its fascination. I'd give it zero if that were an option.
5 This unusual book interweaves the lives of J. S. Bach ( 1685-1750) and Frederick the Great (1712-1786), using their lives to illustrate the clash between an age infused with faith transitioning to the beginnings of the Age of Enlightenment.The biographies of the two men are told in largely alternating chapters, with Gaines bringing their experiences and environments vividly to life. Frederick's life was largely a succession of horrors, while J. S. Bach's life seems to have been one of endless indignities as so many of his contemporaries and superiors saw only his rank in life, while discounting his abilities.We hear the only contemporary review of the first presentation of the St. Matthew Passion - "God help us! It's an opera-comedy" (p. 173). We hear the opinion of one member of the selection committee for Cantor at St. Thomas School and Director of Music in Leipzig when some of the favourites for the post had dropped out, leaving Bach as almost the only remaining candidate: "As the best are not available, I suppose we must take one of the second-rate men" (p. 164).At the end of Bach's life, his job at Leipzig was already in process of being given to someone else, his works were rapidly falling into obscurity and his beloved second wife, Anna Magdalena, died an almswoman ten years subsequently, being financially unsupported by Bach's sons from his first marriage. It took another century for the world to rediscover him.The great confrontation between Bach and Frederick the Great, alluded to in the wonderful title, forms the book-ending themes for this work: a clash of strong-willed individuals, and a clash of cultures. A multi-layered picture of an age - highly recommended.
4 In 1747 there was a famous meeting between Frederick the Great and Bach, at which the king, in a spirit of malice, challenged the composer to write first a three-part and then a six-part a fugue on a theme that seemed an impossible basis for such an exercise.  Gaines presents this meeting as a confrontation between the shallow Age of Reason and the profound Age of Faith.  It is a promising subject, and there are some fine pages contrasting the philosophies and techniques of the "old-fashioned" music to which Bach was heir with the new galant style which Frederick enjoyed and in which he composed himself.  There is also a concluding chapter which discusses the collapse of the faith in Reason and the rise of Romanticism, and how, after many decades of neglect, Bach came into his own again.It is, however, only in fits and starts that this philosophical theme is pursued.  For the rest, the book consists of two separate narrative biographies with little contact between them, chapters on Frederick alternating with chapters on Bach.  Both men had strong and interesting personalities;  and the accounts of their lives are very readable.  Readers who have some technical knowledge of music will find the analysis of Bach's work most illuminating;  those who have no such knowledge will find those pages heavy going - but even they will come away with the realization that Bach set down his notes not only to make brilliantly complex pattern but that they were a remarkably "literal" rendering of the philosophical and theological ideas they expressed.  Anyone who can follow this analysis will share Gaines' worship of Bach.  As for Frederick, he is hardly someone whom any sane person can worship;  but Gaines brings out very well the devastating effect which a terrible childhood had on crippling Frederick as a human being.Although, with its three separate parts (philosophy and two biographies), the book lacks real unity, anyone who is interested in the 18th century will find it very rewarding.
4 I can't vouch for the historical accuracy of this book, but it did make me laugh out loud at least twice per chapter.The author has a fine sense of the absurd, and he calls the reader's attention to many bizarre details of both the period and the players that serious historians might miss (or that I might miss, because I would never read them in the first place).  I am tempted here to give examples, but I don't want to spoil his superb comic timing.  Let's just say that the book includes a plot to kidnap a giant, an army of 6-year-olds, a couple of orgies, and many, many, many Johanns...I could care less whether any of it is true.
4 I enjoyed this book very much. I love Bach's music, and I found it beautiful yet profound. The music appears to me there is so much wonder in it that is inexhaustible. After I read something about the technique of fugue it really fascinated me. This book told the relevant stories of the one particular crowning achievement, but not the technical part of the compositions, which I wish it had gone into a bit more in laymen's terms. However that may be too much to expect. Nevertheless, the history included to usher in the main story is itself very interesting read.
5 I read the book and then went back and read the parts about J.S. Bach again.  Recommended.  The music is more meaningful when you know some of the stories behind it.  It is heartbreaking to know that he died thinking his music would be permanently out of fashion.  And that it was for 150 years.  Also, that his son Carl was likely complicit in laying the musical trap that Fredrick set for "old Bach."  It was a cruel world then, too.As you read the book, you will want to listen to the works the author describes.  Note that there is a helpful (but already dated) Discography at the end of the book.  Also consider getting the Bach Edition, a collection of all his works in a big boxed CD set, to accompany the book.  Also, consider the Angela Hewitt boxed set of keyboard works played very beautifully on the piano.
5 Lived up to and surpassed expectations. Many thanks.Lived up to and surpassed expectations. Many thanks.Lived up to and surpassed expectations. Many thanks.
3 I felt disappointed as I came to the end of this book, realizing the "evening the in palace of reason" was just a contrivance to write a book.  I was expecting something more substantial to have happened that "evening."  The alternating chapters of biographical material and discussion of Bach's works and times I thought were preparation to understand an encounter that evening that would add illumination to the two ages.  Instead, the king just behaved meanly and Bach composed in response.  Humpf.The book is good as far as I can tell delivering material on Bach and Frederick, but the premise fell flat.In the end, I was disappointed to have dragged myself through it.  If I want a biography on Bach, I will read a biography on Bach.  If I want a biography on Frederick, I will read a biography on Frederick.  Putting the two together added nothing.
5 James R. Gaines cleverly juxtaposes and interweaves the life stories of composer J. S. Bach and Prussian king Frederick the Great to depict a world in transition--from the Age of Faith to the Enlightenment (and subsequently, the Romantic and Modern eras). The point of contact upon which this dual biography pivots is a visit (make that "a respsonse to a summons") in which the elderly composer is invited to the young king's palace where he is given a challenge to extemporize a musical composition upon a theme presented by the King. The result is a masterpiece known as "Musical Offering" (BWV 1079). Gaines does an excellent job of bringing history to life, giving modern readers just enough detail to communicate a sense that the story he's recounting actually took place in another era when different customs and values held sway. (The many deaths of close family members that Bach lived through growing up and in his early adulthood are unfathomable today in developed nations; and the psychological and physical abuse prince Frederick suffered at the hands of his father would be classified as criminal.) Gaines, likewise, does an excellent job of concisely explaining musical terms and concepts. EVENING IN THE PALACE OF REASON is a lively story well told. Gaines provides a very helpful selected bibliography and discography. If you're like me, you'll want to intersperse your reading of this book with careful listenings to Bach's choral and instrumental works. I recommend having at leastBach: The Art of Fugue;  Musical Offeringon hand.
4 Johann Sebastian Bach (1685 - 1750) ....  (Says Wikipedia).Here is what the back cover of this book says:(Bach) `created ...the most celestial and profound body of music in history; Frederick the Great built the colossus we now know as Germany... Their fleeting encounter in 1757 signals a unique moment in history where belief collided with the cold certainty of reason.'Awesome, isn't it? Fritz met Bach 7 years after Bach died. Truly a unique moment.And Fritz built Germany, though he himself died in 1786. That was 85 years before the Hohenzollern's Germany was founded by Bismarck in 1871, during the reign of Wilhelm I, who was Fritz' nephew's son's nephew, or something like that.The cold certainty of reason can get a lot done.This is all not the author's fault, so far. The book is generally well worth reading: an entertaining `double biography' of the two men, who were not really meant for each other. Different worlds and different times, despite their overlapping.  Bach's Thuringia and Saxony, his music and his religion were not suitable for Fritz' Prussia.  Their meeting happened in 1747, when one of them was nearly on his way out (3 more years for him), and the other still relatively fresh in his career as king.Still: Gaines shouldn't have said that the Hohenzollern had ruled Germany for 300 years by then. No, they hadn't. They had started with ruling a small patch in the patchwork, and succeeded in growing their patch to a substantial size inside the total carpet. Germany as an entity didn't exist during Fritz' time.  His Prussia had grown to challenge the leadership of the Habsburgs inside the Holy Roman Empire though.(The book has a not altogether bad map at the contents section. The map could have been improved if the edges hadn't been cut off, which would have allowed to see the neighbors, specifically the `original' Prussia. Isn't it a joke that the book's map has `Prussia' outside its frame and needs to place an arrow to the NE?)I feel more competent about Prussia and the Hohenzollern than about Bach's music. I tend to believe what Gaines writes about Bach, but I am often a little skeptical about his Fritzology. This book was recommended to me by a bassoonist. That supports my trust in its musicology, and it makes me chuckle at the story of young Bach's fist fight with the bassoon student who was offended when Bach said that his bassoon sounded like a bleating goat. You must have forgotten that one, Maestro!
4 In a deft stroke, James Gaines gives us in this book biographies of the great Bach and the arguably great Frederick of Prussia. The main strength of the work is in the way he gives flesh to the two protagonists by clearly contrasting their worldviews and spicing up his narrative with vivid details. The tone is never dull and the book is easy to read (I finished reading it within a day.). In a book of this scope, one cannot hope for exhaustiveness, and it is to Gaines' credit that he never attempts for that. There are small parts where his writing seems geared to please a "magazine reader," as when he adds wry comments (like "we'll soon get over this," when describing arcane ideas of counterpoint, but as a whole the book delivers on its premise. It will leave you wanting to know more about Bach and Frederick. There are only a handful of books that can do that.
5 i have read numerous books on j. s. bach and own all the standard biographies yet i was beguiled with this book as the author is supremely adept at placing the information in the right perspective and is such a good writer that you cannot put it down. i read it through in almost one sitting. i have since recommended to other professional musicians that are colleagues of mine and they love it as well. i cannot recommend this book highly enough! buy it!!!
5 I bought this book as a "bargain" because it looked interesting.  I was most pleasantly surprised to find an articulate, informed and evidently very knowledgeable introduction to the lives of two fascinating individuals - Sebastian Bach ("The" Bach) and Fredrick the Great.  Gaines' prose is informal and "homey" with an occasional "aside" where he speaks directly to the reader.  It is a bit jarring to have him mention to me during a very complex description of counterpoint music to "not worry, this will be over soon."  I suppose this is his way of acknowledging that in a Post-Modern culture the reader has to constantly have his feathers smoothed.  Other than that, Gaines' prose is lucid and direct.What Gaines does very well is introduce us to the lives of these two very great but very different individuals.  Along the way he illumines the age in which they lived, reminding us of its vagaries as well as its temper.  It was the day when the great question of truth was addressed at every level.  Does one find "truth" by being conformed to the harmonies of the universe through its self-evident symmetry (Bach, counterpoint music, etc. all the way back to Pythagoras) or does one rise to "truth" in the open ended quest for answers in a world of infinite possibilities, being stirred by passion and reflecting it in expression (Fredrick, the incipient romantic style, etc. all the way back to Aristotle).  Quite frankly I had no intimation that such a philosophical tone had been consciously pursued in the underpinnings of Baroque music although I have long admired it.  I am indebted to Gaines for this insight.Further, the historical figure of Fredrick the Great is worth this books reading alone.  Gaines' understands him well and his treatment is even handed when such fairness with such a figure is difficult to maintain.  Fredrick is one of those men that we feel compelled to justify or castigate.  Even to this day his controversial nature moves people to take sides (much like Andrew Jackson in our own history.  Gaines does a good job.I think this book has an awful lot to commend it and so - five stars though I admit that I am insufficiently acquainted with the more technical aspects of the book to affirm their accuracy.  I would trust other specialists to that task.
5 On the evening of May 7, 1747, two of the greatest living geniuses of the time met for the first and only time. When Johann Sebastian Bach, the Baroque master of contrapuntal music, visited the court of Frederick "the Great", the dynamic King of Prussia, the immediate result was an unforgettable live performance on the pianoforte, followed two weeks later by a grand composition dedicated to the King. Bach's "Musicalisches Opfer" is a true masterpiece on a number of levels, for which Gaines' helpful instruction leads to a much greater appreciation, but the larger story is the clash of worldviews which led to this historic encounter in the first place.Evening in the Palace of Reason: Bach Meets Frederick the Great in the Age of Enlightenment (P.S.)begins with the events of that fateful night, but then backs up to show the broader context. This dual biography details the birth, childhood, education, and adult lives of the two protagonists, with chapters alternating between the two. Their lives couldn't have been much more different! Bach, the staunch Lutheran from a working class family, had little in common (besides strong-willed obstinacy and a love of music) with the enlightened noble, a bisexual and an atheist who admired the great philosophers of his day.As Gaines weaves the life stories of these two fascinating men together (another reviewer called the book a "contrapuntal biography", which I think is a fantastic description), we begin to see the inevitable confrontation between mutually exclusive philosophical viewpoints on the world. Indeed, the author presents this evening as an epitome of the clash between two eras: the "Age of Faith" and the "Age of Reason".As the book reaches a climax in the final -- and longest -- chapter, we find ourselves back in Frederick's palace as he attempts to humiliate Bach by asking him to improvise a fugue (a type of music the King despised) based on a melody specifically constructed to be resistant to contrapuntal imitation. But this time, unlike in the beginning of the book, we realize that there is much more at stake than the pride of two very proud men. This is a battle of wits between men of opposite convictions, each absolutely convinced that the other is terribly wrong, and determined to expose the errors of his opponent's judgment to the gathered crowd.Though this book is not nearly as in-depth as many other biographies available for both protagonists, it is easy to imagine what it must have been like to be in that room that night. It is easily the most riveting biography I've ever read -- and not just because I am already a huge admirer of J.S. Bach! These two men are both fascinating, and Gaines tells the story of their evening together very well.One suggestion that will greatly enhance your enjoyment of this book: Be sure that you have access to good recordings of Bach's music. In a pinch, YouTube will suffice. Gaines discusses a great many of Bach's compositions, and I found that listening to a piece after reading about it -- and then re-reading the section after listening -- made the entire experience much more rewarding.My final comment has little to do with the book itself, and is rather a minor editing issue with the edition I purchased (the 2006 paperback published by Harper Collins). The very first thing I noticed when I picked up the book was the blurb on the back cover, which states that their meeting occurred in the year 1757, which is seven years after Bach's death! The one thing that Jim Lotz made absolutely certain that every student in his music history class at Tennessee Tech University would remember -- even if we remembered nothing else -- were the dates of the musical periods! Twelve years later, the fact that the Baroque period ended in 1750 with the death of Johann Sebastian Bach is still cemented in my brain... which just goes to underscore the point Gaines was making about Bach being the last of his era. Again, this doesn't reflect at all on the content of the book or on its author, but it would have been nice to see the editing match the effort that went into the material between the covers.Buy this book. You won't be disappointed!
5 Gaines' popular intellectual history is a labor of love, and I was easily swept into the world he describes.  He paints a brief encounter between J. S. Bach and Frederick the Great as a fulcrom dividing the faith-based medieval world and the reason-based enlightenment.  By my reading, Bach wins this skirmish, and of the two, is easily the more appealing figure.  Gaines writes in an engaging style, and this reader was carried along by his prose; moreover, he planted many ideas in my head by concise and compelling distillation of some of the grand themes of the eighteenth century.I do have one minor criticism. The paperback edition is overproduced. First, Gaines is listed as a former editor of Time and People.  He may be calling in some old debts from friends in that we find good reviews highlighted from these sources as well as Entertainment Weekly.  Yes, there are good reviews from reputable sources, but it's been a long time since I've seen either People or Entertainment Weekly focus their energies on the transition from the baroque to the classical eras. Second, there is an extensive "P.S." section of "Insights, Interviews, & More...."  I'd rate this section, distinct from the book, at three stars.  But this is secondary; the book itself is magnificent!
5 I have been a fan of J. S. Bach's Musical Offering for almost 3 decades now, and found this, a truer telling of the tale behind it than any I had met before to be intriguing and surprising in its details.  I would recommend it to anyone who is interested in either Bach or Frederick the Great, and especially to anyone who likes The Musical Offering.
5 Gaines lovingly portrays Bach as having deep and simple roots in music and townslife and sympathetically portrays Frederick as burdened by his family's military and royal occupations.  Through these two well defined personalities we get an engaging overview of the Romantic Era as represented by Bach is seen as giving way to the Enlightenment as represented by Frederick the Great.The text is light, at some points it's like the author is having coffee with you. At other points there is analysis of Bach's works suitable for a graduate seminar.  The reader need not be steeped in musicology to enjoy the book, but I believe if I knew more about the terms and the works it would have been even more enriching for me.The two main characters are very well drawn with some equally compelling but shorter portraits of family members such as Carl Bach, Princess Wilhelmina, and Frederick I.There is a short and compelling analysis at the end about Bach's revitalization and staying power compared to the current sentiment regarding Frederick. When you finish the book, you may find yourself browsing through Amazon for more on Johann and Frederick.
5 One of the great books of a lifetime, a masterpiece of soaring imagination, history, and invigorating writing. More Bach comes through in these luminous pages of a one-night encounter with Frederick the Great than is found in a dozen books of Bach 'scholarship'. While the book's premise is Frederick's challenge to 'old Bach' that resulted in his composing 'A Musical Offering', Gaines' exploration of Bach's mind, life, faith, and music is so attuned, and wondrously rendered in such engaging prose that any plot artifice is subsumed in a dire, burning truth that never falters. It's a book of such pleasure and vision one ends recharged with love for 'old Bach'. One example - chapter 6 (The Sharp Edges of Genius) details Bach's funeral cantata 'Actus tragicus' (BVW 106) and offers a cogent summation of its musical parts, but ultimately provides an unforgettable rumination on the godly essence of Bach's music, indeed of those divine dimensions of human experience we hunger for. I've gifted it to many friends, each in turn confirmed my trust with their own experience of wonder. Everything's here - Bach's music, his towering mastery, orneriness and orderliness, his divine business, and a profound look into our common spiritual history. Evening in the Palace of Reason will change your life. No other recommendation truly suffices.
5 I didn't read this book. I am married to a man who read this book. Sitting next to him at night while he was reading Evening in the Palace of Reason was almost like reading it myself, so frequent were the, "...oh, listen to this..." At supper, he would fetch the book, and read portions. He gave it to our daughter for Christmas. He talked about it when we had company. Through his enthusiastic conversation he learned that his music friend read it twice last summer. It is, apparently, a very good book.
3 Gaines uses a historical curiosity - the encounter between Fredrick the Great and JS Bach - as a launching point into a wonder filled voyage of discovery into the world of the Enlightenment.  Bach and Fredrick represent two opposing philosophical currents in the Enlightenment whose positions are now reversed as Post Modernism marches relentlessly against the remains of scientific certainty.The breadth of material is staggering, ranging from music to politics to philosophy to religion.  Those (like myself) who thought this era to be a stilted period of polite powdered wigs will forever have their prejudices reversed by the passions that govern these very accessible pages.  As an introduction to the period and as an incentive to learn more, one could not ask for a better book.However, I must caution that this book should not be used as anything more than a way to stir interest in the period, for this is a history that does not seem to be seasoned by discipline.  Following in the mold of books like "1421: The Year China Discovered America", Gaines seems to sacrifice professionalism and objectivity in favor of accessibility and passion.  As little as I know about the period, it is hard to miss claims he makes that seem quite biased.  When he amplifies the emptiness of the Enlightenment by claiming that Fredrick the Great's greatest years were BEHIND him before the Seven Years War even started, even a neophyte like me cringes.  When he laments that Mozart's music is "missing something" when compared to Bach's, surely he must be aware that there's a substantial musical population that would say just the opposite (especially if you imagine Bach dying in his 30's).  This book has many suspiciously categorical statements and unsubstantiated theories that fire off all sorts of warning signs in my head, but my grounding in this period simply isn't strong enough to bring any of them to justice.  Suffice to say that any person that covers subjects ranging from Luther to Descartes to Hapsburgs to harmony is going to be an amateur in SOMETHING, and yet Gaines rarely predicates any of his assertions with academic caution or humility.So the history may be questionable, but with that caveat in mind, he does succeed in his most important challenge: to make accessible a world that is far more colorful and wonderous than most of us could have imagined.
3 Gaines attempts to write a double bio set of two figures, each of whom could use at least one book.  However, putting these two in the intellectual context of the great 18th-century movements -- Pietism and the Great Awakening, and the Enlightenment -- distinguishes Gaines from others.  There is an historical point of face-to-face contact between the two -- one evening.  The book uses that meeting to explain the times.  This is an intellectual history that's also a page-turner.  Gaines is one lively writer, and his ability to keep his narrative moving while elucidating ideological cross-currents borders on the magical.  The book is a structural marvel.All that said, this book could have benefitted from a really good proofreading.  Stupid little errors mar the narrative.  Furthermore, while Frederick and his achievements may be comprehensible, Bach's music even after all these years isn't.  Gaines has a tough job:  he's got to say something meaningful about the music to a general public that mostly knows nothing of music's technical aspects, the means by which the listener is stirred.  On occasion, he resorts to the sort of high-flown BS you see in Hofstadter's very silly *Godel, Escher, Bach*.  He even quotes Hofstadter, but fortunately not one of Hofstadter's many howlers.  At two points, he just gives up and says, "Listen to the work, already."  Good advice.  Gaines is quite aware of the problem, and he does come up with good things.  However, he doesn't solve the problem, which makes the book less than it could have been.
5 You can go to Peter Gay's two volumes on 'The Enlightenment' for a more exhaustive study, or you can try Norman Hampson's slimmer though comprehensive volume (also, simply, 'The Enlightenment'), and while both shine brightly from sheer size and scope, neither sparkle as much as Gaines' little gem, 'Evening in the Palace of Reason.' Little need be added to the more extensive reviews by others who have posted them here, but perhaps one overlooked point bears mentioning.To whit, Gaines' excellent demonstration of the contradiction, by way of juxtaposition, of the standard views of the "traditionalist" J.S. Bach and the "progressive" Frederick the Great. Of course, classic interpretations of both men (the conservative composer vs. the first-ever 'enlightened' ruler) break down under the demonstrable complexity of their respective characters, and in the end Gaines clearly and cleverly reveals the counterpoints apparent in each: the avant garde, even radically political elements in Bach's music and the traditional, tried-and-true despotism employed by Frederick. Bach and Frederick, in other words, each contained aspects of traditional and the modern, as well as 'ratio' and 'sensus' (reason and faith, for Gaines)--but in differing proportions according to their station and their art. They were each of them perfect examples, and living contradictions, of the age they helped to define, and has since defined them.To hinge, if only for a few hundred pages, essential elements of the Enlightenment on one musical composition (Bach's Musical Offering), is to reveal a jewel hidden in the historically messy pile that is the "age of reason." Bravo.
3 The converging histories of Frederick and Sebastian take up most of the book, but the two lines are not equivalent:  Frederick's story serves mostly as a foil to Sebastian and his music.  A few pieces of music are treated in detail.The writing is accessible and --well, flavorful-- but it is by no means always pleasant.  (Did a muckraker let fall a few malodorous drops into this stew of cultural history?)  And readers might wonder occasionally whether the author was peering into a 20th century crystal ball to find out why people think and act as they do.The perspective of the author becomes more explicit near the end.  He does not take into account that music Bach wrote or adapted for religious use, is still used by some people more or less as it was intended.  Such listeners and participants ask God to lead them in worship and devotion through the musical expression of words in the text.It was worth reading, but I won't hurry back to that shelf.
5 I have long loved Bach, and have read a little about him, but this short book really brings him to life with personal details and information on the changing times in which he lived.  Bach saw music as meaningful, reflecting the divine order in everything.  Although Frederick also loved music, he was a modern man who saw it as simply pleasing sounds.  Two world views collide when Bach, in the evening of his own life, and of the baroque era, visits Frederick's palace.  Bach responds to an unkind challenge by composing the Musical Offering, which seems to have gone unappreciated at the time, but today is loved by millions.This book brought me a new appreciation of the period, and inspired me to listen to a lot of Bach.
2 The combination of a German and an Irish family following the war is interesting, but the way the author tells it makes it so obtuse that at times you wonder if it is fantasy. He missed a great chance to relate more of what was going on around them so you could see the family in relation to "normal."A strange childhood is not uncommon, so if the author had been more direct about the unusual behavior of his father and his mother's complicity, it would have been more easily digested. The characters were never really developed; they just muddled through scenes, so you never got to know them or cared about them.In some ways it is comparable to The Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Society in its relating of the atmosphere. You get the idea, but you don't feel like you can relate to anyone who was there.
5 Memoirs are almost always interesting but this one is like nothing else I had ever read. Truly touching and endlessly interesting, this book has something for everyone. If you have ever felt like an "outsider" you will appreciate Hugo's plight. I couldn't stop reading it. It was a joy until the very last page.
5 Hugo Hamilton's 2003 "The Speckled People" is an under recognized treasure.  This warm and evocative memoir spoken in the voice of the young Hamilton recalls his own childhood growing up in Dublin in the 1950 and 60's. Hamilton strikes a balanced tone; melancholy as he and his siblings suffer from bullying, persecution and and alienation and also uplifting and humorous in its goodness of friends and family and simple vignettes.  His mother is from Germany. His father is a strident Irish nationalist who requires his children to only speak Irish or German.To the gangs and thugs that surround his struggling neighborhood they are not the children born in Dublin but Nazis that should be chased and beat upon or put on show trials and executed. There's no assimilation. It is neither the time nor the place for what we now celebrate as multiculturalism.Tone is important here. Hamilton creates sympathy and empathy for his characters. He, through his young self gives the reader perspective through flashbacks on what life was like for the parents or grandparents going through much more violent times and by remembering the many kinder moments in his childhood. The earlier generations suffered great losses that leave them scared but not traumatized. Particularly Hamilton's mother is a special character unusually adept at defusing her temperamental husband and helping to teach her own children many lessons in tolerance. They will be the "word" people rather than the "fist" people she instructs them. We hear her about her young days in 1930's and WWII Germany and can understand why Hamilton reveres his mother.What works so well is that Hamilton does not try to make the children's alienation compete with his parents childhood's. Intellectually we know the 1950's were not anything so bad as most of the previous 50 years. Their suffering hurts because we can relate to their innocence and the sorrow of being ostracized, picked on and struggling to find your place in the world.In the end this is about overcoming adversity, perhaps coming of age and certainly the serenity that comes with challenges overcome.  The beauty is Hamilton's balance of the ambiguities of daily life. No culture, town, neighborhood or family is all bad or all good. There are very compassionate people in even those most troubling of circumstances. Hamilton memoir left me feeing good. He's a romantic realist that has taken on life's challenges and made the best of them.  And that's always a wonderful lesson.
5 I found The Speckled People after encountering a fascinating article by Hugo Hamilton on the "Loneliness of Being German".  Similar to the article, the book immediately struck a chord with me.  Those living within and without their own language will find a special connection to this book.  Language as the identification of "home" and "country" and "language wars" are explored here in a rather exceptional way - through the voice and outlook of a growing child.  Like a patchwork quilt the vignette chapters of the book come together for the reader to form an exquisitely drawn portrait. Hamilton's family is pictured against the backdrop of their Irish reality of poverty and want in the fifties and sixties. Complexities are accentuated by his dual identity as a child of an Irish nationalist father and a German mother who left Germany after the war.While The Speckled People is an intimately personal chronicle of his youth, Hamilton's story has significance far beyond the autobiography genre. There are advantages and challenges in using the language of a child.  On the one hand, experiences can be conveyed in a direct and innocent way.  Johannes (Hugo) has not yet learned to query all he observes: "When you're small you know nothing". He is a sensitive and perceptive child who intuits that there are more untold dramas in the family.  "You can inherit a secret without even knowing what it is."  On the other hand, it may be difficult to maintain the language as the boy's capacity to analyze and reflect becomes more pronounced with age.  Hamilton succeeds admirably in keeping his style consistent even where he integrates numerous events from the wider world as they become relevant to the young boy.  As you settle into his style, the narrative becomes deeply absorbing.The experiences of life under Nazi rule as part of an anti-Nazi family, continue to haunt his mother. Her painful memories are conveyed to the son in small doses, like selected scenes from a black and white movie in which she had a part.  Nonetheless, she is homesick for her native country and all things German.  Books, souvenirs and toys arrive regularly resulting in outbursts of happy laughter.  Johannes records his mother's mood swings expressed through either laughter or primarily mental withdrawal and silence.His father feels more Irish than anybody around them.  He insists on preserving Irish culture and on "freeing" the Irish people from British influences.  His children become "his weapon" against the enemy.  He forbids the family to speak English. The children tend to "live" in German as their mother has difficulties speaking Irish. The Irish language has to be protected even if it means losing business.  This can mean that cheques are not accepted from people who cannot spell &Oacute; hUrmoltaigh - Hamilton in Irish.  The language is your home, "your country is your language", he insists - it identifies who you are.  The pressure on the children to speak German and Irish at home sets them apart from people in Dublin at the time. There, English was the preferred language.  The children suffer from this enforced isolation. The neighbourhood bullies, responding to their otherness and German identity call them "Nazi", "Hitler" or "Eichmann". They attack them whenever the opportunity arises.  While Johannes repeats to himself and to his mother "I am not a Nazi", he does not defend himself against the assaults.  One of the rules of the house is to adopt a form of pacifist resistance, the "silent negative " and not to become part of the "fist people".  As Johannes grows up, he understandably rebels increasingly against these strictures.  In the end, he discovers his own way out of all the identify confusion, his anger and pain.The Speckled People is a memoir like no other.  Any comparison with other Irish memoirs would seem inappropriate to me. While Hamilton chronicles his childhood and growing up, themes and issues beyond the personal play a fundamental role. In particular his exploration of the complexities of "language" as "home" and "country" gives this book added richness and depth.  [Friederike Knabe, Ottawa Canada]
5 ... observed by a precocious child. That's one way to summarize this book, to empathize with the child narrator and to grasp that the adult writer's deepest intention was to portray his own grief and shame at the discovery that his parents, particularly his father, were Mortal: flawed and futile people who perhaps should never have married and who certainly had no common plan of parenting. The boy Hugo Hamilton remembers himself to have been is wounded, traumatized, for life. His memories strive to pin the rap for his traumata on his environment - Dublin in the 1950s - but the realization of his parents' discord can't be repressed forever. It's that realization that accompanies the narrator's 'maturation' as the book progresses. He needs to mature as a narrator, since he ages eight or ten years as a character in his memoirs, from age four or so to age twelve or fourteen. In fact, the chronology of the boy's aging is deliberately vague in the book, allowing the author to maintain his narrative pose of naivete until the final chapters. It's that naivete that keeps the whole book charming and graceful even while ugly, sordid, and foolish behaviours are reported.The boy's father is a crank. He's also an idealist. That combination isn't so rare, is it? He's an Irish nationalist, rabidly anti-English, and though his form of patriotism is quixotic it's not ignoble. But he's also a tyrannical father and an abusive husband. The boy will eventually find even nastier secrets in his father's closet. The mother is German, a physical and psychological victim of the Nazi years who comes to Ireland ostensibly to improve her English and who ironically marries a man who won't permit her or their children to speak, hear, read, or think English. We readers will eventually learn that she was raped by her boss in Germany, abused over a period of months, and that she is subjugated more than partnered by the Irish father of her children. She's a perfect case-study of womankind's 'post-traumatic stress disorder'. Author Hamilton only rather evasively acknowledges that much of his story must come directly from her diary; his memories, in other words, are practically hers.The boy is 'speckled' because he is half German and half Irish, and effectively lost in a 'world' that wants to be all English. His mother dresses him in an Irish cardigan sweater and Lederhosen. His father canes him for any 'trafficking' with the enemy English language or culture. The boys and some adults of his vicinity torment him for being German, taunting him as a Nazi when in fact he is, via his mother, a refugee from Nazidom. Very confusing for a boy of four, five, eight, nine years of age, and inevitably the confusion and ambiguity become integral parts of his identity.It's gorgeously written, this Memoir of a Half-Irish Childhood. The quality of the writing is such that the sorrow of the subject might be overlooked. I have to express thanks to my ama-buddies in Canada, Australia, and Shanghai for dragging my equine attention to the lovely waters of the Irish seas. Once I knew of its existence, this book was an obvious "must-read" for me since I was also a 'speckled child'. My father was Swedish (and a crank) and my mother was German-American. My father never spoke about his motives or reasons for anything, but I think he hauled our little family out of Minnesota after the end of WW2 to escape his and my Germanization within my mother's extended family. Then, in the 1950s, when I was near finishing elementary school, we moved deep into the American South. I was very blond and I probably had an odd accent in English, and I remember being taunted as German (or even worse, as a Yankee). Hamilton writes of a distinction between "fist people" and "word people", and confesses that as a boy he wanted desperately to be one of the "fists". That's one of the many things in "The Speckled People" that I can corroborate.
5 In Ireland, words never touch the ground.The author of this charming (in a bitter-sweet way) childhood memoir grew up to be trilingual: in Dublin, speaking German with his immigrant mother, and Irish with his nationalist father, and English on the sly, as that was the language of the world around him, but father (aka Vati), forbade the enemy language. Mutti, who is an opera singer's daughter, has to sing her English pop songs in secret, to avoid Vati's retribution.We are in the 1950s, nota bene. The kids in the street call the boy a Nazi (a habit which didn't change much for decades, as so was my daughter called by her British classmates in an American school in the new millennium).I expected something bleak, like Angela's Ashes, but poverty is not an issue here. The family is not rich, but also not miserable in the 50s. (I remember from my own childhood at the same time in Germany, that there was no misery in the much lower standard of living of the time. Kids are tough anyway. Unless they are not.  The demons in the family come from father's patriotic obsession and from mother's dark memories.This boy is highly aware of language and words. He takes the phrase of the words which don't  touch the ground (see my opening line) from an observation of Irish dancing, where feet don't seem to touch ground. He moves between his 3 languages and produces odd ideas outside the box, as kids will. (His style is reminiscent of Irmgard Keun's little girl in A Child of All Nations.)Men in their fifties, writing, or trying to write, in the voice of their own boyhood selves, are in danger of romantic dishonesty, of quaintness. Hamilton pulls it off. He is credible. This book is enjoyable. I am not sure I gained much new insight, but then again, the book's title alone is a lesson in itself: speckled people, people of mixed birth and culture, my kind of people.The Irish have no tomorrow, while the Germans have no yesterday. That's why the Germans invent cars and the Irish write stories and poems. But the Irish also invent things, like the hunger strike. (this is a paraphrase, not my words)The picture of the fists and the words is given by the boy's mother. It is her way to describe what happened in 33: the fists had come to power over the words. Her uncle had been the mayor of a Rhineland town (Kempen), and lost his position when he refused to join the party. The respective Tante, by the way, was of the opinion that one can always tell a decent person by their shoes and hands. But no, says the Uncle: take the radio, it sits there all polite and decent in your front room, and before you knew it, you found yourself agreeing with the most outrageous gossip and resentment. The radio was a scoundrel who never listens, but has nice shoes and hands and music.Without doubt, Mutti is the top hero. I want to end my review with the last two sentences of the book. They give nothing away but encapsulate the woman well."She said she didn't know where to go from here. We were lost, but she laughed and it didn't matter."
5 In `The Speckled People', Hugo Hamilton writes, from a child's perspective, of his Irish childhood. He writes of growing up in a home where the languages spoken were the Irish of his nationalist father and the German of his mother.  English was forbidden by his father, who was so obsessed with trying to hold onto his linguistic and cultural heritage that he would not do business with anyone who could not pronounce his Irish name (&Oacute; hUrmoltaigh) correctly.`Everybody else was in the wrong country and couldn't rescue us.'Hamilton and his siblings grew up in Dublin during the 1950s and 1960s.  His mother, Irmgard Kaiser, left Germany after World War II to go on a pilgrimage to Ireland.  She stayed in Ireland, and married Jack Hamilton (who had renamed himself Sean &Oacute; hUrmoltaigh).  Jack Hamilton dedicated his life to the anti-British, nationalist cause and particularly to the rehabilitation of the Irish language.  His father, who had served and died in the British Navy, was largely (but not entirely) removed from the family record.The children who mostly dominate the story are Franz, Johannes and Maria, although other siblings are mentioned.  It is Johannes who tells this story, and while he signals a future name change, the actual change is not discussed.`When I grow up I'll run away from my story, too. I have things I want to forget, so I'll change my name and never come back. `Writing an account from a child's perspective must be challenging for any adult: reading an account written from a child's perspective has advantages and disadvantages.  A child can recount what is seen, observed and experienced without necessarily understanding and interpreting the context.  A child's account is immediate, whereas distance and age often provide interpretational filters.  So, while I enjoyed reading Hugo's account of his childhood, I wanted at times to read his adult interpretation of events.  But, it's a memoir rather than a biography and the child Hugo's perspective of the issues of identity and belonging, and the baggage of culture and language are worth reading and thinking about.`The Speckled People' is a careful return to a complex childhood full of challenges and secrets, overshadowed by present and past personal, national and international conflict.  And of all the images in this book, the ones that come first to mind involve the dog that barks at the waves.  For me it's a powerful image.`Maybe your country is only a place that you make up in your own mind.'Jennifer Cameron-Smith
5 This is a magnificent story of the author's growing up in Ireland.It takes place mainly after WW2 and until the mid-seventies.The son of an fanitically nationalistic Irish father who doesn't want to give up the past, and a German mother who is haunted by her past of growing up in Nazi Germany.The author shows us the tremendous pressures of trying to get along when you are different from others in your community and country.This problem exists everywhere and we learn that it also occurs even in Ireland.This family lived with it as a central issue at all times and no matter how hard they tried,they could never get away from it.I don't think I have ever read a book that so clearly defined the issues and struggles that had to be faced.Not only has the author described the struggles his family faced he also gives us a great deal of insight into the culture,thinking,perceptions,anguish,and the effect that the past has on the personality and feelings encountered when one is different.Ireland is a very fascinating country  and like no other.One never ceases to be amazed by what one learns by reading about its history and its people;and this book is no exception.Several lines that really struck me were:"Some things are not good to know in Ireland.""We serve neither King nor Kaiser.""My father says the Irish can't live on imagination forever.""He doesn't want the song about immigration to go on forever.""Ireland unfree shall never be at peace.""Maybe there was no failure in Ireland,only bad luck,andmaybe there was no bad luck in Germany,only failure.""Nelson's head was on the ground and the dust of the empirewas all around.""When you're small you know nothing and when you grow up thereare things you don't want to know."And finally,one that sums up the story:"I'm walking on the wall and nobody can stop me."The author's skill in the use of language is a whole order of magnitude higher than so much we see today;but still in a  class with several of his Irish compatriots.What wonderful stuff this small country produces.
2 My daughter had to read this for school and she didn't find it interesting. She wished there were &#34;Cliff Notes&#34; for it.
5 This is a great book and I chose this rating because of the quality reading.  I would recommend it to all!!
5 What a fabulous find: the shorthand notes of Oscar Wilde's prosecution of the Marquess of Queensberry for libel.The author is Oscar Wilde's grandson and his literary executor. According to him, the formal transcripts of the proceeding (the transcription from shorthand into typewritten form) has mysteriously disappeared from the Court's files. Very irregular. One wonders how/why the stenographic record survived when so much else of the official record mysteriously disappeared. The author only says the transcripts were delivered to the British Library, but does not indicate the source.I am a lawyer and am familiar with trial procedure here in the US, but not the UK in 1895. It could be that the proceedings were taken down by private stenographers (i.e., not employees of the Crown), who would transcribe the proceedings and deliver a typed version to the Court for entry into the record. If so, then the hand written stenographic record could have remained in private hands (the stenographic company), untouched while the rest of the formal record of the trial mysteriously disappeared. How fortunate for us these records have survived.I am not sure it's fair to blame Wilde's counsel for the debacle. Wilde swore to this man that there was no basis at all for the libel. I believe that during the trial Wilde's counsel saw the inevitable, felt let down by a client who lied to him (then a gentleman's word was his bond) and frankly didn't really care. A lying client really ties a lawyer's hands behind his or her back. (I have had first hand experience of that as a real estate lawyer. You really can't represent people who lie to you.)In his introduction, the author says that he would like to ask his grandfather why on earth he started the action. I would too. It was insanity, knowing "what was out there" in the way of blackmailers, evidence at the Savoy Hotel and other places which would come back to bite him. Oscar Wilde and his immediate family paid a terrible price for this  mistake. All of Wilde's other friends told Wilde to tear the card up. Why didn't he? I can only speculate that Wilde was sucked into the Queensberry family's "strum und drang" and was used as a pawn. All of the Queensberry family (exclusive of the father) financed Wilde's prosecution of the father. Wilde did not have sufficient funds to pay for the prosecution himself as he was facing bankruptcy at the time (another reason why it seems incredible for Wilde to start this prosecution).
3 Oscar Wilde was a handsome man in 1892, as the photo of him in this books clearly indicates. He was a brilliant playwright and daubled in poetry. However, as the drawing of his arrest at the Cadogan Hotel on April 13, 1895, he was an arrogant, dandified "gentleman." He had been accused of a horrible charge and should have accepted his fate. To crave justice from libel, he laid himself and his reputation open to scrutiny and disaster.Why his grandson would want all of this sordidness known now is impossible to comprehend. Some things are better left forgotten or not said. Wilde felt that the charge (however right it might be) called for a defense of justification. It turned out to be the opposite as the self-destructive genius only continued to lie with charm, entertaining the audience but not the court.Those who start libel actions often emerge with their reputations and lives in tatters. Libel actions are meant to be cases for re-establishing reputations, confounding gossip and allowing the litigant to emerge in a state of unblemished purity (John Mortimer). The most famous libel case of all led Oscar Wilde directly to jail. He left behind a devoted wife and two sons. The grandson who released this detailed account of the trial to try to figure out "Why on earth did you do it?"There are photographs of some of the persons involved and of the evidence used against him. It is proposed that perhaps he really didn't think he had done anything wrong. After all, many important people of that time got away with the same thing of which he was accussed. To learn what it is, you must read this book.I'd heard rumors about his sexual persuasion previously, but this stuff went a little too far to please my sensibilities. The Judge maintained that men who could do as he did were 'dead to all sense of shame' and declared that this offence was 'the worst I have ever tried.'Poor Oscar, his ego got in the way; his pride was too great to accept the fact that he had been 'found out.' In going to court, he laid open his past and destroyed his future. He hurt not only himself but his family as well. Why can't people just let the sordid past lay dormant?
5 As this book makes abundantly clear, Alfred Douglas is to blame. Al wanted to get back at his unstable and angry father through Wilde. Alfred forced his lap dog Wilde to ignore everyone else's advice and pursue a criminal charge against his father the Marquess of Queensbury.THe MArquess at that time had come through a vicious divorce trial, and suffered the suicide of an older son who was being blackmailed for intimate relations over many years with the new Prime Minister. The Marquess reacted unwisely in forbidding any friendship between Al and Oscar, and in moving not only to throw vegetables upon the stage on the opening night of The Importance, but also leaving a slanderous if somewhat illegible card at Oscar's club.Oscar lived to regret that owing to his extravagance in setting up Al and Al's intimate pal in an expensive hotel, he could not pay the hotel bill and thus leave for a planned trip to Paris to practice Salome. Instead he remained in London and received the unfortunate card. His most trusted legal friend had already been retained by the Marquess and thus could not give Oscar the good advice he needed to ignore the card and discard it. Instead he followed Al's insistence in charging Al's father the Marquess, and the rest in the tight knit British aristocracy and ruling class, as flamboyantly revealed in Oscar's plays, was inexorable and inevitable. IN fact Oscar's trials become his finest performance and most indeniable proof of the utter and unmentionable corruption, vice, immorality and hypocrisy of the BRitish ruling class. But what a profound and absolute price he paid for revealing this.This nevertheless was his life's mission. The son of Irish Catholic nationailsts, he was raised in Protestant Schools, including Trinity in Dublin where he was classmate to the one who would so cruelly cross-examine as recorded here. He then went on to Oxford, and London, serving subversively and amazing his fake friends. He perhaps believed he could dazzle the British courts but was quickly silenced, and the events must speak clearly for themselves. As for the British system of injustice, as BRitish Barrister and author of the Rumpole series John Mortimer displays in his brilliant foreword to this book, res ipse loquitur. Mortimer concludes: " . . .when any merciful prosecutor or Home Secretary might have decied that he had suffered enough, it let him down badly and he was finally convicted. Passing the ridiculous sentence of two years' hard labour, Mr. Justice WIlls said that men who could do as Oscar WIlde did were 'dead to all sense of shame.' This judge, who had presided over cases of rape and murder, seriously maintained that Wilde's offense was 'the worst I have ever tried.' When the verdict and sentence were announced ( . . .) the truth had been exposed but it was still a shameful day for British Justice (p. xiii)."Needless to say that prosecutor who had so viciously treated Wilde despite their co-nationality went on to a highly successful legal career. Reading these transcripts reveal how gifted a barrister he was and how very poorly served was Mr. Wilde in this absolute diversion of the interests of justice, in which Wilde could bring a libel case against a member of the British aristocracy and wind up in prison himself, doing hard labour and losing everythnig he had including his beloved wife and sons.This nevertheless stands as Mr. Wilde's greatest revelation of British corruption, which Anglo America now eagerly imitates, and thus which we must now read as a cautionary tale with great attention.And we must deeply thank and congratulate Wilde's grandson in researching in a keenly academic manner this book from forgotten and hidden court documents and associated texts, and in writing the brilliant introduction and notes, a scholarly feat which he humbly denies and ascribes to others in his very generous acknowledgements.Please note the Bitish edition of this book irrelevantly includes in the titleIrish Peacock and Scarlet Marquess; do not buy needlessly twice unless a fervent collector of all things Wilde, which is emminently understandable and as matter of course forgiveable. Nevertheless, in light of Mr. Wilde's Irish nationalist parentage, and his central image in Salome, and in citing his own description of the Marquess of Queensberry this superfluous title makes itself sweet icing upon a bitter cake.
5 Very fascinating, I've read bios on the case for a college thesis, but never the "actual transcripts." Highly recommend if a fan or not.
5 What's amazing is that, we have heard for many years about the unparalleled wit and charm of Wilde in conversation, yet until now we of course have been denied this experience.  Reading these verbatim transcripts, hundreds of pages long and recently unearthed, we are given the opportunity to do this almost virtually, for the Wildean voice comes through loud and clear, with perfect crispness and distinction.  This libel trial, the first of three of the Oscar Wilde trials, is almost a conversation between two persons, and the defence counsel, Carson, though incredibly scornful and insolent, is almost as intelligent and quite as good at debate as Wilde, so it's a splendid match of brains.  The outcome is disheartening, though, and throughout you can't help pounding the desk and murmuring out loud, oh, Oscar, how could you have been so stupid!  Or -- don't go there!  So he becomes real in a way he hasn't previously, not even in the best biographies available.  Queensberry and Alfred Douglas come off, in hindsight, as monsters of privilege in only quasi-human form.  And poor Edward Shelley, it is plain, deserves a book of his own.
5 It wasn't a capital trial, but the 1895 libel proceedings of Oscar Wilde against the Marquess of Queensberry were in their way tragic and terrible.  Entering the trial, Wilde was a celebrity and a playwright with the magnificently silly _The Importance of Being Ernest_ in successful performance in London and New York.  Afterwards, he was pursued, tried, convicted, and imprisoned at hard labor for the then crime of homosexuality.  It is a story that has been told many times and turned into dramas.  Those of us who love Wilde's writing and outrageous wit will always wonder what would have happened if he had been able to write and live as he wished, instead of being ruined and sent to an early death.  Amazingly, the trial record has until now been unavailable.  There were summaries, and publication of extracts, but only with _The Real Trial of Oscar Wilde: The First Uncensored Transcript of the Trial of Oscar Wilde vs. John Douglas (Marquess of Queensberry)_, 1895 (Fourth Estate) do we have a full record.  In 2000, an anonymous source donated a transcript of the trial to the British Library.  It was authenticated, and has now been edited by Merlin Holland, Wilde's grandson.  Anyone interested in Wilde's life and writing will be fascinated by this verbatim record which puts judge, prosecutor, defender, and of course Wilde himself on the stage of the Old Bailey to play out their roles verbatim.Holland has a useful introduction to recall the details of how Wilde was snared into legal doom, spurred by his young man Lord Alfred Douglas (&quot;Bosie&quot;) to bother Bosie's abominable father Queensberry.  When, after several skirmishes, Queensberry left his calling card at Wilde's club, with the words &quot;To Oscar Wilde posing as somdomite&quot; (spelling was one of the Marquess's shortcomings), Wilde should have thrown it into the fire.  Instead, egged on by Bosie, he took Queensberry to court for libel.  It was the mistake of his life.; as Holland writes, &quot;If I could ask my grandfather a single question, it would have to be, 'Why on earth did you do it?'&quot;  Wilde did not take advice that he leave the country, and so sealed his own doom.  Most of the pages of this book are the words from the trial, and most of those words come from the bouts with Wilde in the witness box.  Initially he seemed to enjoy his role in the events, and gave as good as he got.  For much of the repartee reported here, the transcriber notes: &quot;(_laughter_.)&quot; and &quot;(_more laughter_.)&quot;  But an eventual flippant answer overthrew Wilde on the stand, although his case could not have been won.  When Carson asked about a companion, &quot;Did you ever kiss him?&quot; Wilde replied, &quot;Oh, no, never in my life; he was a peculiarly plain boy.&quot;  It was not long after that Wilde and his lawyers withdrew the charges, and Queensberry was declared not guilty.If Queensbury was not guilty of libel, it was reasonable to think that his accusations were truthful, and with the evidence already gathered, Queensberry assisted in a speedy arrest of Wilde, who once again had refused advice that he leave the country.  The subsequent trials, one with a hung jury and one finding him guilty of gross indecency, are not covered in this volume.  Wilde had two years of hard labor, and three sad years of exile before his death in Paris in 1900.  He produced the mordant &quot;Ballad of Reading Gaol&quot; but little else during these years, and while there are plenty of examples that his wit remained in conversation, we were robbed of subsequent examples of the delicious laughter that had come from each of his successively improving plays.  This is a useful book as full documentation of the first trial, and Holland has given helpful notes throughout.  Those who admire Wilde, however, will find it more than useful.  Wilde was brilliant at Greek and admired Greek drama and life, and it is no exaggeration that the transcript of the trial, reading as it does like a piece of period theater, has all the marks of a classic tragedy.
4 The Real Trial of Oscar Wilde is just that, a transcript of the trial that lead to Wilde's downfall. It has notations that are good for understanding everything that is mentioned. The only thing that I wished that had been different was the lack of transcripts when witnesses were testifying. The trial transcripts are only when Wilde is in the box. I don't know if transcripts have been kept from the witnesses or how the legal rights would be handled, so Holland might have been unable to include those. But, overall The Real Trial of Oscar Wilde was exactly what it promised, historical documentaion of the infamous downfall of Wilde.
5 Love this book every juicer needs this book
5 I know the cover of this book--a guy in shorts doing a cheerleader-type jump--may look faddish and ultra-cheese, but it really is a fantastic book.  It is easy to read and easy to understand, and highly informative.  Plus, the guy is realistic.  No matter how good something might be for you, we have to plan our lives with a realistic view in mind.  Plus the back is filled with great, easy recipes.  It has an alphabetical index that tells you what different fruits and vegetables are best for.  I can't wait to read Jason Vale's other books.  Give it a try, I say.
5 Jason Vale constantly expands the current horizan of juicing to increase our healthy selection so we can continue to live and maintain a healthy lifestyle.
5 Vale is English so you will come across a lot of English humour. But he's a likable sort of fellow. When we first began juicing Jason Vale was one of the first authors we came across. We have a number of his books, but this one is my favourite. I love the way he goes through so many of the most popular fruits and vegetables and explains the health benefits of each. I turned to this again and again in the early days, just for general knowledge, but also when for research and when deciding what juice to make on a given day.Don't be put off either by the covers, titles or approach of Jason Vale's book. My impression is he is trying to reach the unreached. He is aiming (it seems) primarily at a British market. The segment that looks ignorantly on juicing or with some suspicion. His7lbs in 7 Days Super Juice Dietfor example sounds so faddish. But the book is solid. Vale is committed and serious and very knowledgable. His approach is not faddish, but if you want to simply improve your health radically and permanently then check this book and his other ones out.Through Jason Vale and others, I became so interested in this topic, that I have begun a three year course to become a Nutritional Therapist.
5 I really enjoy reading this book.  The author, Jason Vale, has a very down-to-earth (and hilarious) way of explaining how food effects our bodies and health (bad and good food).  The book always motivates me to eat more raw fruits and veggies and stay away from denatured foods.  I love the juice and smoothie recipes too.  He just does such a great job!.  :)
5 An excellent series from my favorite Christian writer.  A very fun read and a page turner to boot!  I can highly recommend this believers of all ages
2 I am a CS Lewis fan. Have read Chronicles, Till we Have Faces, Screwtape Letters, etc. Was really excited to read this book based on the reviews posted here. I was terribly disappointed. This book moved at a snails pace. I was bored to tears until chapter 12 picked up through 18, and let down through the last post script. I am not sure if the reviews were based on Lewis the author or the book- but I didn't get the raves. Needless to say, I am done with the space journey and won't be finishing the trilogy.
4 Five out of five is way to high -- the characters are plastic, the  narrator has a set of annoying mental habits, and the odd descriptions of a  truly odd world are often downright confusing.  Three out of five is too  low -- the book is original and often paints its colorful world with grace  and style.  (3.5?)This book IS like Narnia -- a book of Christian ideas  told in with almost adolescent simplicity.  The reason you'll like it is  because, occasionally, it hits home.  And when it does, you realize that  the world C.S. Lewis is painting, however simple, is one you would like to  see more of.If you need a quick idealistic reprieve from your modern  world, give it a try.
5 This book is written from the perspective of a person that went on a round trip to Malacandra and found that we are not alone in this world.  Ransom, the protagonist in this story, finds himself kidnapped and headed to a planet to be offered as a human sacrifice-- only things aren't as they seem.This book is an immersive read, and I found myself finishing a chapter and wondering where the time had gone.  Lewis does a great job taking you along with Ransom as he discovers and wanders through his environment, and you'll wonder what will happen next.
4 A nice early sci-fi piece by Lewis. While not dramatically hard sci-fi, Lewis' ability to include alien creatures in his writing style is similar and different to his Narnia series. It's a quick read with, of course, Christian undertones, that are continued to the rest of the trilogy. Lewis' human characters are archetypes and his alien creatures are really fun to get to know. Worth the read. Final Grade - B+
3 I was intregued about this book because I like science fiction.  It is a well written classic, but it more philosophical about the subject of good vs. evil and the evils of mankind.  Great visual images of the planet (I won't give away which one) but it was less science fiction than I expected.
5 I read this one every few years. I love the fantasy of it, but also the vision of good and evil embedded in it.
5 Don't let the allegory or "this is a story with a message" reviewers scare you away.  Dr. Ransom, a linguist, (I often wonder if J.R.R. Tolkien was the inspiration for the persona) is kidnapped by a man who he once knew in academic circles, and sent to Mars.  But this is not like other Mars-sci-fi books.  It was published in the middle of World War II in England.Ransom escapes being a planned human sacrifice on Mars and falls in with creatures that have cultures like the Cherokees (a Native American tribe for those of you on the net not from the Americas).  He meets the planet's spiritual guardian, Oyarsa, and among other things learns that earth is referred to as the "silent planet," hence the title of the book.Lewis has several things to say about mankind's wish to colonize the galaxy and beyond - - which are all negative, and amazingly contemporary for readers today.Many fault the technology Lewis envisioned as dated,  but I find hints of Lewis' sci-fi ideas in other stories - - such as the most recent First Contact. Dr. Ransom finds the purpose of his life on earth crystallized on Mars.  You may find your purpose here crystallized as well - - but at the least, you will read a highly entertaining, and unusual story.
3 Out of the Silent Planet is a re-release that was written before and during World War II.  Dr. Ransom finds much more than he bargained when he sets out to walk and explore his surroundings.  Stumbling upon and old school acquaintance, Dr. Ronson soon finds himself on Malacandra on a planet he never believed habitable and among creatures unlike those he has ever known.  Fearing for his life, he tries to persevere from day-to-day while questioning every instinct he has ever known.While the description may be a bit vague, the beauty of this book is the discovery of each creature and element of the Malacandra world and I don't want to ruin those first puzzlements and epiphanies for any would-be reader.  I enjoyed this read for its unique and refreshing method of discussing humanity. I also found myself fascinated and curious about the creatures as they were introduced.  I never knew what was going to happen next and couldn't help wondering if Dr. Ronson would get home.  The descriptions were vivid.  There were just enough to describe a complex image of creatures and a world unlike anything we've seen but the descriptions weren't to the point where I became bored.I find I read very little science fiction and I couldn't explain why other than to say that I didn't know of any good science fiction reads.  I'm also finding that the other worldness often found in science fiction can be a bit much if there is nothing to compare or hinge the imagery on.  I think that is my only real issue with this book.  It took a little more time for me to read an otherwise short book, because I really had to stop and try to conjure and image to fit the descriptions and the actions because everything was so different.  This pulled me out of the story a bit.  I'm so accustomed to images playing in my mind as I read even when reading fantasy and other genres.  But this science-fiction was a little more work for me.
5 One of the things that amazes me about this trilogy is how different the three books are.  Out of the Silent Planet is the most conventional science fiction story: a tale a mad scientist and an Everyman kidnapped and brought along an adventure beyond his wildest dreams.  Perelandra takes us to a more fantastic (in all senses of the word) place where our protagonist takes on a Messianic role, first through philosophical debate and then by more physical means; this is the most metaphysical and poetic of all the books, and the hardest to understand.  Finally That Hideous Strength shows us life on a dystopian Earth, and a somewhat prosaic young married couple who become involved in a cosmic struggle over the future of the human race.To put it another way, the first book could be classed with H.G. Wells, the second with Milton or Dostoyevsky, and the third with Orwell.  I don't know of any writer other than C.S. Lewis who is so versatile.Yet for all the differences between the books, there is an essential unity between them.  Certain themes, such as contentment and obedience, continually reoccur.  We are presented throughout with a deeply hierarchial world in which each obedience to proper authority brings joy and freedom, and rebellion - or submission to improper authority - leads to fear and death.  It is also a world in which pleasures of many kinds are offered freely, and the challenge to accept each one with thanks as it comes.
5 I have just reread this book for the third time over a span of 50 years. I think I enjoyed it more this time than any other time!
5 Read it with a deeper look between the lines. C.S. Lewis never wrote anything that didn't have a definite and deeper spiritual significance than just surface reading gives. This one and the two that follow are just that, and they present a surprising and wonderful implication for those who take the time and bother to look deeper.
4 Here we have a story of early spce travel to Mars, known to local inhabitants as Malacandra. A bit weird as C.S. Lewis can be, yet very entertaining.
5 This is great book for sci-fi fans that like to have their thinking stretched.  I first read it while in college, now I'm reading with my son.
5 Like the Chronicles of Narnia, C.S. Lewis's Space Trilogy is timeless. The story brings allegory to a new art.
3 Mr. Lewis had a stunning method of enlightening his readers with a highly inventive tale. He was extremely detailed and forthcoming especially on stressing the importance of his story's ethical objective. Reading the book, it seemed to me that I was experiencing a philosophical journey through the mind of an expert with extensive imagination, rather than merely appraising a science fiction or a fantasy. The characters were specifically ordained. Ransom, the main person, could be remarkably hysterical at times in his conducts, thoughts, and speech. So were the other beings that were mindfully created by Mr. Lewis. It was a clear-cut high moral adventure. I could visualize Mr. Lewis verbally communicating me the account beautifully but the whole exploration left me vacant. The narrative did not peak my interest even though I truly benefit from the amazing use of the English language that was justly the incredible skill of Mr. Lewis.
5 I almost gave the book 4 stars because it can very difficult to follow - but that's a problem with me, not the book.  It's amazing how Lewis creates this entirely new world, one in which there is no point of reference with the planet Earth.  This is both a source of wonder and difficulty, since the world he creates is so foreign.  The first time I read it, I was not particularly sensitive to the dual meanings Lewis applied to different things.  In subsequent readings, however, I've noticed far more.  If you read with a specific intent of discerning deeper meanings in things, you run the risk of imposing your own ideas on the text, which is bad practice.  I recommend reading the book slowly and carefully, taking time to ponder the different characters, events, and, most importantly, words spoken.  Lewis is making a very serious point in the book, and addressing some crucial human issues.  Read carefully.  Personally, I find the book difficult, but only because it somewhat begs to be handled respectfully and diligently - not haphazardly or cavalierly.  The book is simply a fantastic piece of literature, full of intrigue, wonder, and profound philosophy.  Get it, read it, reflect on it.
5 Just sitting here thinking about Lewis' Space Trilogy warms my  heart. There is a security in reading Lewis that one doesn't find many other places. Part of it is that you know your time is not being wasted, for you are reading about eternal things, and partly is that the substance, the truth, comes through Lewis's writings so vividly. There are all these insights about God spinning through his writing, all these things you've thought about God yourself but never quite put into words. Lewis is able to crystallize these truths while simultaneously making them a viable part of an entertaining story.The first book, Out of the Silent Planet, takes place largely on Mars and allows the hero, Ransom, to experience a world completely outside his own, and completely untouched by the fall. The creatures are fantastic, and they make us realize both our shortcomings and our potential, as we see how God might work in a world without evil (or at least not much evil).The second book, Perelandra, is far more allegorical, a Paradise revisited, that frankly has been done by quite a few Christian authors in one form or another down through the years. It is a bit different as it takes place on Venus, and the overtones of science fiction and the vantage point we have of watching the struggle of a new Eve make it unique. That and the unmatched writing style of C.S. Lewis.The third and final book, That Hideous Strength, takes place back on bad old earth, and among other things we get to see how an anti-christ might come about, and in fact how the whole end of the world might come down. The backdrop of a sleepy, sleepy English college village makes the eschatological story all the more vivid, and the last 50 pages or so are some of the best in all of English literature. Well, that may be a bit presumptuous, but certainly in all that I personally have ever read. It starts slowly, but it is more than worth the wait when Merlin and angel-like beings from several nearby planets interact with us and Lewis lets the pain, the comedy, and the glory unfold. That sounds a bit like a movie trailer, and while this would make a great movie, it is the spiritual energy, especially of the third book, that makes it so powerful and even a little frightening.  Like about anything he ever wrote-it is excellence and inspiration on every, every level. Must reading, to say the least.
5 I really enjoyed this book.  It is a little bit meatier than the Narnia Chronicles (which I love too) as it is meant for a slightly older audience.  Great science fiction about space travel and other species.  Way better than anything Star Trek came up with.  Highly recommended.  This and Perelandra (book 2) are great.  That Hideous Strength (book 3) is okay, but you would probably be fine just reading the first two.
5 This was a wonderful classic that I discovered!  It can be read by adults and older kids (teens).  C.S. Lewis is a master!
5 Like Gulliver's Travels, this book introduces us to a strange world filled with strange inhabitants in order to say something about us. Lewis's powerful imagination and evocative writing ensure that the adventure is  paramount, the Christian concerns unobtrusive. In fact, Christianity is  never even mentioned. Instead, by following Ransom's experiences among the  industrious, beaverlike hrossa and the tall, ascetic sorn, we come to  understand why the inhabitants of Malacandra call Earth the Silent Planet.  With its beautifully described landscapes and whispering, invisible  entities, Malacandra is a realistic utopia well worth this literary visit.
2 I generally make a point of reading a book before I watch its movie version. In my experience, no matter how great the movie, it is no match for the original written story.Sadly, that was not the case when I read "Into the Silent Planet." It was such a painful read for me that I wished to watch the movie version instead. The catch is, the movie version does not exist (not at least to my knowledge; if anyone knows of one, let me know!)The storyline goes like this. An Englishman by the name of Ransom is kidnapped by two scientists and taken to the planet Malacandra for human sacrifice.  Ransom manages to escape once he gets to the planet, and the rest of the story talks about his encounters with the beings in Malacandra. Add to it 2 parts philosophy, 1 part Christian theology.One of the reasons why I wished for the movie version is that C.S. Lewis describes Malacandra with such detail and precision that I can only imagine how breath taking it would be to behold the scenery on a large-screen cinema. However, I also found his writing long-winded and often drier than a piece of burnt toast. (And now that I think about it, I don't think I was able to quite get into "Lion, Witch and the Wardrobe" but LOVED the movie version)I know C.S. Lewis is a beloved writer, but I just can't seem to get into his books. Oh well, to each his own.
5 I am always amazed at Lewis's imagination. He ties in his fantastic stories with deep spiritual principles and somehow manages to increase my understanding and greatly broaden my vision of eternity.
3 I love much of C.S. Lewis' other writings, and I expected to like this. I just don't care for the story. HIs talents are much better showcased in his other works.
5 I happened upon this book by researching something else, and I must say that I am very pleased with this amazing discovery. I enjoyed the rich, satisfying tale of an adventure to Mars. I highly recommend this book to anyone who needs to escape from Earth a bit and who needs to step outside  of humanity to glimpse at how "others" may see us and our blue world.
5 I am continually amazed by CS Lewis - his Narnia books were of course, excellent and entertaining, Mere Christianity a tour-de-force in apologetics, and The Great Divorce and Screwtape Letters were astonishing in their fictional applications of Christian doctrine.  Finally, the book of his that I found most puzzling - "The Abolition of Man", turns out to be the non-fiction underpinnings for the third volume in this wonderful science fiction/fantasy trilogy.  Like a key fitting a lock, the grim prophecies of "The Abolition of Man" are shaped and given character in "That Hideous Strength", and I am left in awe again of Lewis' genius.But the trilogy does not start with such a complexity.  "Out of the Silent Planet" begins mundanely enough, taking the hero Dr. Ransom out of the context of earth to explore the thesis of "what would Christian Truth be like on another planet."  Lewis, as in his Narnia series, is quite bold in building his allegory - he takes license that would border on heresy if he weren't so committed to the fundamental integrity of Christianity.  Indeed, one gets the feeling that where he bends doctrine in order to accomodate his plot (such as in making the Oyarsa into the makers and shepherds of worlds - contra "The Word" or "Logos"), he does so humbly and innocently.  In spite of the fact that Lewis has much more to say, "Out of the Silent Planet" is self-contained and fulfilling."Perelandra", the second volume, follows Ransom once more as he is transported to Venus to play a strange role in another planet's Garden of Eden.  While enjoyable, Perelandra relied a bit too much on descriptions of terrestrial paradise that were untransferable to the reader - one doesn't get as caught up as Dr. Ransom in the sensual aspects of Eden.  Lewis does, however, deftly manage the paradox of "That Happy Fall" - the sin of Adam that led to the miracle of Christ.  "Perelandra" is entertaining, but not quite so fulfilling as either the first or last books in the trilogy.The final volume, "That Hideous Strength" is very unlike the first two in tone and context.  Not merely because the action takes place on Earth (and a post-war England that is so like/unlike post-millennial America), but because rather than an exposition or exploration of Christian realities on other worlds, Lewis is engaging the eugenic nightmare threatening to atrophy all of Western Civilization.  There was a strange resemblence to GK Chesterton's "The Ball & The Cross".  In fact, "That Hideous Strength" was the most Chestertonian of Lewis' works, combining the comic absurdity of philosophies taken to their natural conclusions with the sobering reminder that "this is happening even now".  In another weird sense, "That Hideous Strength" reminded me of John Barth's "Giles Goat Boy" (with poor Barth coming out quite unfavorably in the comparison).  Perhaps this was only the use of the University as the sphere of action, or the creeping modernism that is Lewis' villain and Barth's savior.In any case, "That Hideous Strength" masterfully blends the revelations of the preceding volumes in the trilogy along with a sudden infusion of earthly mythology, Arthurian legend, post-war philosophy, and even a bit of J.R.R. Tolkein (quite odd, this last bit!).  But the root of "That Hideous Strength" is no fantasy, but a recognition of the apocolyptic desire of man to eat from the tree of knowledge and cheat death - by remaking himself.  The word "eugenics" isn't used much any more after the Nazis became its champions.  But back in the 30's it was all the range, striking deep into the Roosevelt White House, and carried on to this day under the auspices of Planned Parenthood.  Lewis might have forseeen the horrors of man's affair with his own genetics, but this last most chilling development is not captured in "That Hideous Strength".Here in the 21st century, in the midst of the technology that alarmed CS Lewis, we live in a world of the human genome project, designer babies, clones, fetal stem-cell research, ADHD, "Indigo Children," prisoner rehabilitation, John Hinckley, and dying-with-dignity.  One hopes that somewhere out there is a Dr. Ransom monitoring the situation with a Mr. Bultitude standing by.  Failing that, one wishes there were another CS Lewis, who, through an intimate grasp of Christianity and a ranging imagination, could skewer the modern eugenicists and stand in the breach against the abolition of man.
5 As you would expect with C. S. Lewis, this is a difficult read.  Wordy to the extreem but a good story in its self.  I found lots of referances to things only found in is period but it forced me to look at the past and do research to find out what he was talking about.  Not to be read lightly!
5 Excellent book that was very helpful to me with my graduate school class. C.S. Lewis will always be known as an excellent writer.
5 I would have loved to have met this great mind.Incredible variety in all 3 books.  Lewis however masterfully ties them all in.  Once you pick up the Trilogy, you'll have a difficult time putting them down.  Lewis  tenatiously grasps hold of your mind and catapults you through an explosion  of sights, sounds and color you've never imagined before.You'll meet  characters that will boggle your mind and fascinate you.  Not the norm, or  same tired fictional characters that most writers are stuck in the mire  with.Pick up the Trilogy.  It's just you - Lewis - and your imagination.  What a ride!
3 For a novel written about Mars in the modern age this book shows little awareness of the scientific data that had been gathered about the red planet by the time it was written. (When Edgar Rice Burroughs's A Princess of Mars was written, which looks like a major inspiration for this story, far less was known about Mars.) This puts Out of the Silent Planet in the realm of fantasy rather than science fiction. But that's okay.The story involves a character named Ransom, whose name is an obvious reference to his purpose, kidnapped by some evil space explorers from the English Home Counties to be a sacrifice get them "in" with the Martians. Understandably none too keen about this plan, Ransom escapes from them after landing on the red planet, and meets with the Martians, learning their language and immersing himself in their culture. This phase is really the meat of the book. It is also the reason that I felt the book was slow-moving, and could have cut to the chase much more briskly. Nevertheless, it was always interesting. Lewis did a great job of world building here. His Martian races, while having some wacky names, are certainly alien with reasonably alien motivations. Lewis does an excellent job of using their alien culture to comment on and sometimes make fun of ours. Their culture is mostly free of greed and vice, so when Ransom has to explain to them why his kidnappers want to kill their people and take over their planet, he has to use some pretty clever verbal dynamics to get those concepts across.But these evil characters do want to take over the planet, and are willing to kill all the Martians to do so if they must. This story is very interesting, and would have been a very punchy and enjoyable read if the middle section hadn't been so ponderous. If you understand, though, that this is philosophical science fiction, then you'll be ready for this slowness and hopefully be able to enjoy it for what it is. But I recommend its sequels as more fast-moving and constantly developing stories.Out of the Silent planet is an enjoyable book with vivid descriptions of things that don't exist anywhere, demonstrating the able imagination of the man who is much more famous for the Chronicles of Narnia. I do recommend it, though with reservations only for its pace.One reason I wanted to read this book was because I am a Christian, and I wanted to enjoy the theological subtexts of this series. (Of course, I also enjoy science-fiction, or else I wouldn't have bothered with this.) However, apart from references to creatures that seem to parallel biblical angels and demons, I didn't really see any Christian subtexts. They are much more clear in the other two books in this series. I simply found this to be an enjoyable science fantasy novel with more philosophical themes than I would normally look for in my reading of fiction. It certainly kept me interested enough to read the next two books in the series.Reviewed by the author ofCopout
5 This is the first book of CS Lewis' Space Trilogy that continues with "Perelandra" and finishes with "That Hideous Strength". The book imagines a Universe with intelligent life on planets other than Earth, where Earthly humans are the only fallen (sinful) creatures. Three travelers from Earth (Dr. Ransom, Dr. Weston and Dr. Devine ) visit one of these planets without sin, and the book explores the differences between the created before and after the fall. Is Lewis attempting to ascertain what the Creator had in mind for His creation? Maybe. Is he trying to portray what heaven may hold in the afterlife? Possibly. Regardless, the book is my favorite of the trilogy for its nice pace, rich characters and exploration into the mind of God.
5 CS Lewis is best known for his Narnia Series for children and then as a Christian Apologist.  An agnostic for many years, this English Don and Professor of Literature came to develop a friendship with JRR Tolkien (yes, THE JRR Tolkien)and over the course of that friendship, converted to Christianity and the Church of England, (despite the protestation of Tolkien to a small degree who was himself Roman Catholic.)Lewis grew in fame throughout England in part due to his writing and in part due to his radio broadcasts known as "Fireside Chats" which became the basis of one of his more influential works, "Mere Christianity."Why raise this in the context of a review on this Space Trilogy?  Because it helps to explain the broad appeal of it to many different audiences.Did you enjoy the Narnia Chronicles as a child (or an adult reading it to a child?)  Here then is a new vista written more to an adult level with many of the same elements of genius in writing and allegory that you came to love.  Dive in.  Reorient yourself to the slightly different genre and prepare to be entertained.Are you attracted to the Christian apologetics of Lewis and less inclined to read for entertainment?  Well then, how about a rollicking good tale that weaves throughout the telling, major tenets and demonstrations of the heart of Christianity that will feed your mind even as you catch yourself enjoying the story.Are you a Science Fiction fan? Does science fiction as it was written before the boom in the 1950's from authors such as Jules Verne and George Orwell appeal to you?  Here is some writing in that vein and style that will entertain you.  Yes there are decided Christian overtones in the work that will challenge you, but the story itself is so well written and the theological underpinning woven into the warp and woof of the tapestry that you will not feel preached at.  You will enjoy the tale on it's own merits.As to the components of the trilogy you will find that Out of the Silent Planet and Perelandra are similar in character.  Ransom (think there may be an allegorical message there?) is interesting in his role as a Philologist.  This was probably a tribute to Tolkien the philologist who remained Lewis' friend, colleague and a member of the literary circle, The Inkling's who read and critiqued each other's work.That Hideous Strength switches gears a little bit which probably reflects Lewis' growing relationship with George MacDonald, also of the Inklings.  The final book is a little darker and more Orwellian but still a very good and thought provoking read.In short there is something for most people here.  You do not have to be a Christian or even sympathetic to Christianity to read and appreciate these books.  They stand on their own as classic, strong literature written by a master craftsman.  If you are attracted to Lewis for his past works and want your literature to have redemptive value to it, then you are in the right neighborhood for that as well.Of all of Lewis' works these are probably the least known.  They are worth the read!
5 This is one of many fabulous books by CS Lewis.  It is fiction, but in an allegorical sense.  It is the story of Dr. Random, a man who is kidnapped and taken to the planet of Malacandra.  There he escapes his captors, and finds himself among a strange alien race.  He lives among them for some time and learns their language and customs, including religious beliefs.  He tries to teach them about Earth, but they cannot grasp the concepts of murder, greed, corruption, or any vice.In time, Ransom is summoned to appear before Oyarsa, who he thinks is a form of deity but turns out to be a kind of steward for the planet.  In his charge is the care of Malacandra, and he insures that the three dominant races exist in peace.  Ransom appears before him, and he explains that his intention is to know about "The Silent Planet," which Earth is called by all other planets.He explains to Ransom how they all live in harmony--each doing his share of the work.  Their lives are simple, and thus very happy, but they also understand certain spiritual matters to a degree that baffles Ransom (they do not fear death, and don't grieve when someone dies).  He explains that each planet has an Oyarsa, but that Earth's became "bent" (the Malacandrian word for bad or corrupt).When his former captors are brought before Oyarsa, one of them, Weston, makes a powerful speech threatening them with annihilation and boasting about the strength of his world.  Ransom translates, but finds it impossible to express Weston's corrupt notions in the Malacandrian language.  This is one of the most beautiful messages of the book.  The Malacandrians can't even understand corruption, let alone be influenced by it.  Their society is so simple, yet so pure, that they don't even have a way to express it.As Ransom explains in Malacandrian, Weston's noble intentions suddenly seem very corrupt when explained in such simple terms.  Weston's claim that "our right to supercede you is the right of the higher over the lower" doesn't seem so convincing when Ransom translates it: "he says it would not be the act of a bent [being] if our people killed all your people."  Of course, Oyarsa does not see his point of view.This example demonstrates the satirical brilliance which dominates the book.  By creating a race that doesn't comprehend violence and vice, Lewis very successfully shows how ridiculous it is.  The book is filled with thoughts like this, brilliantly woven into the story to create sheer masterpiece.  If there is a work of fiction that shows CS Lewis' genius, this is it.
4 ... until I finished it, in a week! Great read and very different. A little bit heady, spiritually, but I think I understood it.
2 If I was lamenting the state of contemporary fiction, as wikipedia mentions Lewis says in his biography, this is not what I would want to see happen to provide a cure.A cure for insomnia, or, in a pinch, a firelighter, perhaps, but there is not much else of interest here.
4 I first read this series as a teenager when space travel had not been achieved for real and thus most stories of that time were about individual travellers.  These days we know the expertise required in more than one field, not to mention the vast amounts of cash would have made this impossible.  Even so, the story itself is still thrilling and beautifully told.  The planet is worthy of 'Avatar' treatment; trying to picture it, as it unfolds, is a joy in itself.  Also lovely is to imagine a world unspoiled by the fall of man as written of in the Bible.
4 Many readers come to know Lewis through his magical Narnian chronicles. That's no surprise as the books are still bestsellers today. His Space Trilogy, though, is far less known, and that's a minor tragedy.Out of the Silent Planet was one of the earliest science-fiction books. Written in 1938, it was far ahead of its time. In fact, I read somewhere that the book includes the fourth ever mention of the world 'spaceship', a sign of its frontier material.Out of the Silent Planet reads like a blend between Robinson Crusoe and Avatar. Ransom, the main character, finds himself stranded on a strange planet far away from Earth. Without food or direction he travels along the whimsical terrain, mingling with native inhabitants and ultimately meeting the Great Power in charge.Like Robinson Crusoe, the book is slow at parts. It's as much a mental narrative as a physical one. But this adds to the realism as Ransom has the same internal struggles you would expect of someone in an unfamiliar world.As in Avatar, the book shows what happens when humans crash into a more peaceful, morally developed, spiritually grounded culture. Ransom arrives alongside two other men, one representing science and the other human abasement. Between the three of them they reflect the primary tendencies we have toward strange cultures--one tries to civilize it, another to exploit it, and Ransom tries to leave it in peace.I'm sure I'll have more to say about the Trilogy as I finish the next two volumes, but Out of the Silent Planet was a great start. Fans of science-fiction, especially those with a more philosophical bend, will especially enjoy it.
4 I had no clue that Lewis had written a sci fi trilogy when I stumbled upon this one completely by random.  I was in between books and it is certainly a quick read, so why not?I am glad that I did.  Lewis does a great job in telling a story and making sure that he finishes it up and ties up the loose ends.  He created a world that was altogether plausible.  The Oyarsa and the Hnau add a lot, and also tell a story about our own world.As with anything Lewis writes, I can't help but look for a parable or some other deeper meaning as it relates to mankind.  Dare I say that the Oyarsa are angels in Christian myth, that Hnau are the many different religions that exist?  That accepted, then the story behind the story would show the predominance of a God, any God, and that all of the Hnau (Jewish, Christian, Muslim...) all should get a long as they are all ruled by the same god, or in this case Meldilorn?I ramble, but either way Lewis created a story worth reading.  I do want to read the next in the series to see where it goes, to see if the parable mentioned above does in fact play out even more.  I would recommend, even though Lewis could have made it a bit more involved and in depth than it already was.3.5 stars.
5 I was skeptical at first - C.S. Lewis writing about Space instead of Narnia? - but once I started this book I was absolutely hooked! I encourage everyone to give it a chance.
4 I was reminded of how excellent C. S. Lewis' command was of the English language. The consistently appealing story line, coupled with his protagonist's philosophical observations as his adventure progressed, made for a most engrossing tale. If you enjoy a thoughtful story that gives you the opportunity to reflect on how you look at your own world, I believe you'll like this book.
4 Out of the Silent Planet is the first in C.S. Lewis' science trilogy.  This book explores the themes of good vs. evil, different cultural attitudes towards fate and technological advancement, and the nature of faith.This book demonstrates the extreme flexibility of C.S. Lewis' mind and his skill at writing across genres.
5 How can I describe a book that is fantasy, poetry, theology and adventure, all in a book one can read without blushing, with plenty to think about, yet you wouldn't be afraid to share it with a teen, even your own?
4 I have always been a fan of science fiction, but I really like C.S Lewis incorporates religious aspects and science fiction in his writings. One thing that I would have to say is that it did feel a little to descriptive sometimes, but I guess that would be expected.
5 This novel was written in response to Olaf Stapledon's LAST AND FIRST MEN.  Lewis was fascinated with the way Olaf Stapledon was able to fuse philosophy and science fiction, but shocked by an episode where Earthmen wipe out the ecology of another world so that humans can adapt it to their use.  He wrote this  novel as a counterweight.  Oddly enough, this may have been the ultimate source of the movie "Avatar": human defending a Utopian alien planet against his own species.In the story the hero, Ransom, visits the planet "Malacandra"  (eventually revealed to be Mars).  The details of Mars are of course way out of date from the modern point of view; one can think of it as a Tolkien-like imaginary world.  Like Tolkien (who was a friend of Lewis's and may have been the model for Ransom), Lewis gives brilliant descriptions of the world: its people, their languages, the landscape, even the subtle effects of lower gravity.  Three very different species (hrossa, sorns, and Pifiltriggi) live in near-perfect harmony.  The hrossa specialize in art, the sorns in abstract thought, the pifiltriggi in technology.  Ransom learns to admire each species and to think of his own species more critically.Finally he meets the world's ruler, Oyarsa, who explains the history of the planet.  Part of it is that Earth is the misfit planet of the universe and is out of contact with the rest; hence the title "Silent Planet".Readers who are Christian can interpret the Oyarsa's revelation as a religious allegory.  Those who are not can enjoy it as an interesting mythology.  The sequels put more emphasis on the religious background and so might not appeal to everybody, but this novel is quite accessible.
2 Unlike some stories written a while back (Isaac Asimov for example) which are still entertaining I found this book too descriptive and thus very boring.  Perhaps I was looking for more adventure and what I got was a discussion of the human race and how bad (or in the authors terms bent) we are.
5 A must for CS Lewis fans. Kindle conversion is competently done. On to the next book in the trilogy! Thanks!
5 This is the great lay-theologian's foray into sci-fi, first published in 1938. I mention that date, because this book does not resemble much current "science fiction." It's definitely fiction... but not very scientific. For instance, Lewis avoids explaining any technical problems in how these characters actually leave Earth's atmosphere (or return). What is the source of propulsion? Nowadays, a 7-year-old reader would get bogged down in the first few pages, realizing that everyone would be burnt to a crisp in the homemade space-contraption Lewis blithely hurtles them off in.That being said... the book is still a gem.It begins with Dr. Elwin Ransom (a middle-aged Philologist from Cambridge University) being kidnapped by two men, Dick Devine and Dr. Weston, the latter being a mad physicist who wants to extend humanity to other planets. At first, Ransom is excited with this journey to Malacandra (Mars)... until he overhears that he is going to be offered as a sacrifice to the space-creatures called "sorns." Devine and Weston have been to Malacandra before, and have convinced themselves that a human sacrifice is recquired by the sorns, in return for the right to exploit the planet's gold deposits.Upon arrival, Ransom escapes... beginning a conflict that lasts the length of the book and extends to its sequel "Perelandra."In this colorful novel, Lewis explores many DEEP themes... the primary one being that, if there is life on another planet, there is no need for us to assume that it is in a "fallen" state, or filled with wickedness, or in need of redemption, as our own is. If we reached other planets we might find a race which was, like us, rational but, unlike us, innocent - having no wars nor any other wickedness among them. If this were so, we would have much to learn from such creatures, and have nothing to teach them. But, because of our own "bentness" we would probably find some reason for exterminating them.This is what happens here in Out Of The Silent Planet.Lewis was inspired to write this book after finding that many of his own students held to beliefs in interplanetary colonization and the scientific hope of defeating physical death. Out Of The Silent Planet is an attack on the belief that the supreme moral end of mankind is the perpetuation of our own species. The book is so rich in invention, so broad in scope, so sensuously perceptive in descriptive detail that, after reading it, it's difficult to view the Cosmos through any but Lewis' eyes. Seriously, after my first reading, I walked outside and looked up into the night sky and wondered... "What if?"
5 I absolutely adore this book. It is my favorite of the Space Trilogy. Fans of The Chronicles of Narnia series will appreciate Lewis's attention to detail, his imaginative creatures, and his characters' child-like wonder in the face of things new and unexplored. Ransom's unexpected to journey to Mars -- or Malacandra, as the natives call it -- is all at once magical, adventurous, and spiritual. He encounters a world without war, in which all species of "hnau" (sentient, intelligent creatures) work together and have a place in life.Much of Out of the Silent Planet alludes to Biblical lessons of faith, trust, peace, and the sanctity of life. This book can be taken at face value as a wonderful science fiction story, and those who wish to dig a little deeper will learn Lewis's take on theology.
4 I very much enjoyed the mix of C.S. Lewis' ideas of human nature within a sci-fi purist setting. This is a work that should not be missed.
3 here's the deal. i loved this book. it really makes you think towards the end and addresses alot of interesting topics. very interesting, imaginitive, spiritual, challenging, all the great c.s.lewis characteristics.my one and only beef (and the reason you should NOT purchase this book) is that the publication is absolutely horrible. there are so many typos, i want to cry. i seriously can't find another publisher who still carries this book. i dearly wish i could, because i am ashamed to own it, and i hate that, because the book is marvelous. but when you are reading along and every apostrophe is replaced with a quotation mark and vice versa, and simple words like &quot;the&quot; and &quot;that&quot; are mixed up, i feel that c.s.lewis must be rolling over in his grave. if you can find another publication of this book (ie, NOT by scribner /  simon &amp; schuster), DO IT. don't buy from this publisher, but DO buy the book.
4 Early in the book a man named Ransom is travelling from town to town in search of lodging.  Ransom is a professor of philology, an academic discipline where words, phonetics, and other linguistic constructs are observed.  Ransom comes across three men fighting, and through a twist of fate is kidnapped by two professors who are going to explore a planet called Malacandra.After their touch down in Malacandra, Ransom is blown away by the vast differences between Earth and Malacandra.  The three men are confronted by giant ghost-like creatures.  Ransom runs for his life, and becomes stranded alone on the strange planet.  This is the story of his adventures and exploration of the planet Malacandra.The main reason I give this four stars is probably because I haven't read the rest of the trilogy yet, but the story is very exciting once the plot is set up about a third through the book.  I can't tell you more than what is above for concern I might give away something.Unfortunately, some of my favorite parts of the book fall into that category of stuff I can't give away.  However, what I can say is this.  Science fiction often encourages our philosophical and theological imagination.  The effectiveness with which Lewis does this is significant.  I highly recommend this book.
3 To start things off I have to say that I love C.S. Lewis. I loved the Screwtape Letters, I loved Mere Christianity and I have read most of the Chronicles of Narnia. But this is a bit of a head scratcher. It's not that the story is bad. Quite the opposite in fact: it is a very interesting story and shares many similarities with the classic sci-fi of Jules Verne and H.G. Wells. The problem for me, and one of the problems I've always had with Lewis, is that he is too smart for his own good. There is hardly any wonder or amazement in the character of Dr. Ransom at being on a new and strange planet. Both the character and the author treat Malacandra and its inhabitants as something to be analyzed and dissected rather than as something to awed about, like what you find in the Narnia tales. Not only that, but the postscript at the end kind of deflates everything as the character writes to the author saying that there were other senses, emotions and tales that the author left out that could have made the story better. Well, if Lewis, who is already a great writer, could have written all of these into the story, why didn't he do that? Certainly it would have made the tale more interesting and boosted the somewhat minuscule page count (158 in my edition). In the end, it's an interesting that tale that is weighed down too much by Lewis' brilliance.
5 This was a great little story. The action was less intense than the science fiction I am used to, but that is not a bad thing.The protagonist Ransom is no Captain Kirk, but he provided the right "you are there" quality to this story of a WWII era trip to Mars. There were some technical aspects of the description of space travel that transcended the technological limits of the time, but Lewis gave some real surprises in that regard without totally blowing the credibility of the story. It held my interest, and had the right sense of wonder.The visual descriptions, especially of Mars, were lush and tactile.The characters were uniquely identifiable, without entirely falling into current conventions of sci-fi and fantasy. From Earth was Ransom, the kidnapped protagonist, in the wrong place at the wrong time. Devine, the slick profiteer. Weston, the brilliant bully living to fulfill and manifest his ego. From Mars were representatives of not just 3 races, but 3 species, as different as dogs, dolphins and chimpanzees, all with souls and capacity for self consciousness belying appearance. Around them, usually discretely, were angels, and above them, some kind of demiurge willingly self-constrained, but with great power and a capacity and need to learn.In addition to the surprising freshness described above, the clash of values depicted never seemed heavy handed to me, and seemed realistic, even when the reader is exposed to conversations and ideas from alien life. Mars is a planet that was populated, but never subject to the fall as set forth in the Judeo-Christian tradition, and Lewis addresses this in a fascinating way. It is interesting and provocative, rather than being didactic. And near the end where Ransom is acting as translator to the brilliant, egotistical, over-ambitious, secular Weston, a terrific commentary on 21st century values ensues that is critical, but offers hope in the form of Ransom, who grows into a heroic protagonist by this time, and whose eyes open at the same time as ours to just what Weston and worldliness really mean.You don't need to be interested in more than sci-fi to like this book, but you can also enjoy it as social and spiritual exposition and criticism using the setting as allegory.I am looking forward to reading the next 2 books in the trilogy.
5 I found this book to be an excellent start to the trilogy. It was fast paced and interesting and opened up a desire to read more in the series to see where the story line and its symbolisim would lead.
5 CS Lewis is a master at creating imaginary worlds, but what he really excells at is subtly communicating a heavier message.  This ability carries this novel from the good to the great.  Lewis is innovative enough to make  you look at reality in a totally different way.  I finished the book last  night and I just put the book in the book shelf and grabbed Perlandra as  natural as could be.I am fairly unused to sci-fi as a genre besides  big films and the occasional episode of Star Trek, oh and I read &quot;War  of the Worlds&quot; a long time ago.  So I guess that I can see that Lewis  is definitely influenced by H.G. Wells, but I also think of Kurt Vonnegut  in a way.  His writing style is obviously very different, but the way that  both of them expose your daily life as very possibly misinformed.  That  life isn't neccesarily limited to perfunctory duties.  A positive challange  to a banal existence.What else can you expect out of a little novel.
2 Sometimes I really like &#8220;going back in time&#8221; and read some of the old books in the genre. This one had been on my to-read shelf for a while. Unfortunately it was a bit of a disappointment.The book is of course old so one would expect the science in it to be somewhat outdated and that it is indeed. Luckily there is very little science in this book since the little there is would have been outdated already when it was written.Okay, fair enough. It is an old book after all. Unfortunately there is little real adventure in this book. Sure, Ransom is stranded on Malacandra (supposedly Mars) and he is discovering the planet, the inhabitants and making new friends. However, it is all happening in a fairly dull and long-winded manner. What is worse is that most of the conversation is made up of downright boring philosophical and (pseudo)religious dialogues between Ransom and various alien entities.Lewis is also goes to great lengths in painting the humans as a horrible species that have lost their (religious) roots and divine mentor. It all ends up to a rather dull, even a bit depressing, book. I&#8217;m afraid that the only real enjoyment I had of this book was the somewhat old-fashioned use of the English language which was quite fun to read.
5 If you are looking for a book that will challenge your thinking (even if it was written quite a while BEFORE we had space travel), I dare you to read this first book of C.S. Lewis' Space Trilogy.  Read with &#34;spiritual eyes.&#34;
4 One's first impression of this book might be that it is science fiction, but it really falls into the category of fantasy.  While it does involve space travel and aliens, Lewis was exploring religious themes through allegory, rather than suggesting that a society such as the one he creates actually could exist.  "Out of the Silent Planet" was originally published in 1938, by John Lane, London.  This is the first of the three books which have become known as the Space Trilogy, the second is "Perelandra" (1943) and the third is titled "That Hideous Strength" (1945).In this story, Professor Elwin Ransom, a professor of ancient languages finds himself in the English Midlands and under unusual circumstances he is reacquainted with a former schoolmate, Devine (a person he remembers disliking), and he meets Professor Weston, a noted physicist.  They  drug and kidnap him and he is taken aboard a spaceship to a planet called Malacandra, which he later learns is Mars.  Afraid that he will be given to aliens called Seroni as a sacrifice, he manages to escape and meets Hyoi, who is a different is a different alien race called the Hrossa.  From Hyoi he learns the Hrossan language and about the other races on the planet, i.e. the Seroni, Pfifltriggi, Eldila, and Oyarsa, who is the one in charge of the planet, and who is very similar to an Eldil.  Being chased by Devine and Weston, he makes it to Oyarsa from whom he learns the nature and history of the solar system.Lewis uses this book to address some of the same situations as have occurred in other noted science fiction works.  In H. G. Wells' "The War of the World" (1898) there is a dying Mars and the Martians are attempting to take the Earth for their new home.  This situation also occurred in Olaf Stapledon's "The Last and First Men" (1930), but Stapledon goes on to later reverse the roles as Man escapes a dying Earth to take Venus as his new home and in the process exterminates the native inhabitants.  Professor Weston's speech at the end of this novel clearly is meant to represent Stapledon's arguments as seen by Lewis.  Lewis' Martian races, unlike those in Wells or Stapledon, are virtuous and have all accepted their fate even though it means their death.  In this story it is man, in the form of Weston and Devine who are evil, not the aliens.There are many religious parallels that can be drawn in this story.  The one referred to as Maleldil is clearly God.  The Eldila are like angels, and the Oyarsa, of which there are apparently one per planet are probably archangels. Earth's Oyarsa, who has become "bent" (or evil) is Satan or Lucifer.  In this story, the Hrossa, Seroni, and Pfifltriggi are unfallen or virtuous, while man has been cast out of the Garden of Eden.At less than 160 pages, this is a short novel.  Lewis has created an interesting story and there are some nice touches, such as the pieces of language that he puts throughout the book, which add a distinct quality to it.  This isn't a book which changes the face of speculative fiction, but overall it is well done.
5 A friend of mine once described his reading experience of OUT OF THE SILENT PLANET by saying, &quot;This kind of stuff really turns my crank.&quot;  I, too, really enjoyed reading this novel.  Lewis had a great imagination, and even though this book came out over 60 years ago, it still has a feeling of contemporary importance to it (a quality that is characteristic of Lewis's writing).
5 Sometime in the 1930s, C. S. Lewis and his friend J. R. R. Tolkien were complaining about the state of contemporary English fiction. &#8220;Tollers, there is too little of what we really like in stories&#8221;, Lewis said to Tolkien, &#8220;I am afraid we shall have to write some ourselves&#8221;. After some discussion on the subject, the two writers agreed that Tolkien would write a time travel story while Lewis would try his hand at a space travel story.The results were typical of the very different styles and personalities of the two men. Tolkien was a perfectionist who was never satisfied with anything he wrote and his proposed story was never finished. Lewis was more energetic and managed to write the three novels that make up his &#8220;Space Trilogy&#8221; in less than a decade.Out of the Silent Planet is the first book in the trilogy. The story begins when Elwin Ransom, a philologist who is spending his vacation walking around the English countryside, comes across two men, Weston and Devine, trying to force a retarded young man into some structure. Ransom rescues the young man, only to be taken himself on what turns out to be a space ship traveling to a planet called Malacandra, or Mars. Along the way, Ransom discovers that Weston and Devine intend to deliver him as a sort of human sacrifice to the Malacandrans and as soon as they land, he escapes.Ransom quickly encounters the Malacandrans and learns that they are not the savage, primitive monsters he had been led to believe they were. There are three species of Malacandrans; the seal like Hrossa, the tall, wise Sorns, and the handy Pfifltriggi. A fourth race, the invisible Eldili live in space and are more like spirits or angels.  All three races are unfallen and thus lack the inclination to evil that the inhabitants of our Earth or Thulcandra, the Silent Planet.  The only word in the Malacandran language that Ransom can find to express the concept of evil is &#8220;bent&#8221;, perhaps the most apt word to describe the problems or humanity that I have ever heard.There is not much action in Out of the Silent Planet, and there are slow places, but the plot is far from dull. I think the depictions of the extraterrestrials are among the best I have read in science fiction.  The science is badly dated, though Lewis made the best use of contemporary theories and knowledge about Mars available at the time. In the climax, Ransom is brought before the ruling eldil of Malacandra, the Oyarsa. He discovers that the Oyarsa of Earth is bent and confined to Earth&#8217;s immediate region in space. As a result, Earth is inaccessible to the Eldil and is named Thulcandra, the Silent Planet. Ransom answers the Oyarsa&#8217;s questions about life on Thulcandra and affirms things are very bent indeed. Weston and Devine are brought forward, but they insist on treating the Malacandrans like ignorant savages, even speaking in a ridiculous pidgin. This scene is a send up of modern man&#8217;s pretensions of superiority over &#8220;primitives&#8221;, and Ransom&#8217;s translation of Weston&#8217;s speech asserting Human superiority over the Malacandrans is priceless.Out of the Silent Planet seems to be a promising beginning to the Space Trilogy and can stand on its own. I am not sure if it can really be classed as properly science fiction so much as a theological fantasy, or an up to date medieval romance, but however you might classify it, it is worth the effort of reading.
4 Out of the Silent Planet is science fiction in the sense that, in order to create a fantasy for adults, Lewis had to send his hero and villains to a world far enough for a re-imagining, but near enough that they could plausibly go there from here.  Lewis not being a scientist, and this book being sixty years old, the plausibility of Lewis' idea of space travel wears quite thin by now, though of course he didn't mean to be taken seriously on that count even then.  A more serious problem Lewis set himself to solve was, &quot;What might an unfallen world look like?&quot;  And also, &quot;What might a society in harmony with God and nature look like?&quot;  or &quot;What is the nature of rationality and soulishness?&quot;  I find some of Lewis' ideas unsatisfying.  (Paradise and survival of the fittest are difficult concepts to reconcile; if the Malacandrians are all at peace, how did they evolve, as Lewis apparently thinks they did?  And how does the ecosystem avoid being overrun with critters?) Still, this book is a great fantasy with many insights, and a lot of fun to read.  No one I know combines so fertile an imagination with such philosophical depth and psychological acuity as C. S. Lewis.  All these are in evidence here.The planet is a beauty.  Among Malacandra's cauliflower highlands and tourquoise canyons, its philosopher bird-spectres and tribal seals, Lewis enacts an exciting story.  His readers will find some familiar images and themes: island paradise, the cultural dynamics of tribes and Greek philosophers living side by side (see Till We Have Faces for more), the wind-bag philosopher posing as scientist posing as philosopher.  (The passage in which Ransom translates Weston's defense of planetary imperialism and genocide into &quot;Malacandrian&quot; then, for our benefit, simple English, is a classic blend of linguistics and philosophy.  See George Orwell, Politics and the English Language, for an essay from that period that, in effect, explains what Lewis is doing with that deceptively simple passage, and why it desperately needs to be done.  See also Abolition of Man.)This is the tightest and shortest of Lewis' three &quot;sci-fi&quot; novels.  You can read it in a few hours.  Lewis was probably wise to shift to frankly supernatural means of locating his heroes to other worlds, in later fantasies.  Still, don't miss this wonderful tour of Mars for the world.author, Jesus and the Religions of Man
5 I thoroughly enjoyed this book! "Out of the Silent Planet" is a classic science fiction story and clever morality tale. The wonderful descriptions throughout the book brought the planet Malacandra to life in my imagination. It is a fascinating journey into the unknown. I had the pleasure of reading this story with hardly any forehand knowledge of what it was about. The cover art of the edition I purchased is very good. It is an illustration by Kinuko Craft that shows a man and furry creature together in a boat surrounded by a wondrous world. It hints at the story without giving too much information away. This book is the first of the so called "space trilogy." It is followed by "Perelandra" and "That Hideous Strength" (please see my reviews of these two books for more details). While the books of the trilogy do tie together they were also written to be read independently of each other. A note to sensitive readers: The villains occasionally utter curse words of condemnation and there are brief moments of violence.Note: Sometimes I enjoy musical accompaniment while reading. I found that Jean Michel Jarre's album "Equinoxe" was one of my favorite choices to listen to while reading this story.
5 I first read Out of the Silent Planet in high school some twenty years ago.  It was the first C.S. Lewis book I had ever read.  And even at that time, reading was a brand new hobby for me.  Over the years, as often happens, other great enjoyable books find their way before my eyes, and intriguing reading experiences like this one are pushed into obscurity.  Five years ago, I picked up my First Lewis-Love for the second time.  And just a few weeks ago for the third time.  Repeat readings over the years show the remarkableness of Out of the Silent Planet.For my generation, different images spring to mind at the mention of science fiction.  Star Trek, Star Wars, 2001, X-Files - and the list can go on for far longer than I have time to type or you have time to read.  Among the titles is rarely found epic allegory.  I realize Lewis did not intend this book (or its sequels) as allegory, but the symbols and allegorical images, if you will, are clearly there.  (It may be said that science fiction is one of the most difficult genres in which to refrain from allegory.)Dr. Ransom may be more closely likened to John Bunyan's Christian than Jesus Christ or first man Adam.  He (and the reader) unknowingly and unwittingly stumbles into the clutches of Weston and Devine, little realizing he's much more than a guest.  What fascinates me most about his voyage through space (I realize OOSP is not unique here) is how accurate and believable the description even though it was written long before manned space exploration.  Imagine someone in George Washington's day describing the monotony of an intercontinental flight.Ransom's adventures consisting of panic, despair, discovery of companionship, and learning and mastery (more or less) of the alien planet's indigenous languages are what drive much of the story.  Though Ransom is not perfect (he's still a native of the "Bent, silent planet") - and therefore not unfallen Adam - and not possessing of any great strength or power - and therefore not Christ, his limitations are what make the story so intriguing.  He is constantly surrounded by beings (Hrossa, Sorns, Pfifltriggi, Eldila, and Oyarsa) who do possess some sort of amazing, other-worldly strengths -and for the most part, they are simply amplifications strengths possessed by humans and some animals here on earth.Yet for all this, Ransom still never meets the all-knowing, all-powerful Maleldil.  How similar to readers of Narnia learning all about Aslan, the Son of the Great Emperor Over the Sea.  Yet at the end of all seven books, we still never meet the Great Emperor Over the Sea.Out of the Silent Planet gripped my attention and fascination in the same way as 2001 A Space Odyssey though OOSP perhaps left me with more hope.  Unlike Dave Bowman, Ransom encounters more than just the cold, darkness of space.  Malacandra (Mars) is teeming with intelligent and even hospitable life.  Makes me want to go back....
4 This is a departure (well, no kidding, SPACE Trilogy!) from the other CS we have read.  It was good. Not my personal favorite but my son read it for literature during this past 8th grade year and he liked it. Far better than a lot of garbage kids read today, for sure.
5 Hmmmm,is it only me or what;but I seem to note a distinct sameness with Lewis'"Perelandra" and it's story about a "non-fallen" race of beings who would presumably be"in contact/rhythm" with their planet's Mother Nature(becausethey're non-fallen) and Cameron's"Pandora" with it's race of beings with a similar set of circumstances.I wonder if the estate of CS Lewis must've thought upon viewing "Avatar"?!?!!!??(If they have.)I am not a lawyer but I find it sort of fishy.Feel free to contact me at dennis_york7@hotmail.com if you have the same funny feeling about this "coincidence"!Calling all publishing/copyright lawyers!!!!
5 "Out of the Silent Planet" by C.S. Lewis is more than just a science fiction novel, it's a desperately needed "worldview adjuster." In a post-modern society where space is seen as a cold, empty, dark nothingness, Lewis inspires a much different view of outer space that ignites a child-like hope of the possibility that "out there" lies places and things of wonder and magic.It is clear enough that C.S. Lewis builds a contrast between the modern view of outer space with medieval cosmology, which see's what's "out there" as filled with life, beauty, and music. It's the lifeless vs. the abundance of life. Much of the modern world feels that this view of cosmology is obsolete since our scientific discoveries secure a true measure of what is real and what is not. However, I think that Lewis would see it differently - that our scientific discoveries are making us numb to what is truly real.It is not that our scientific discoveries are bad, but that they are girded with a certain philosophical presupposition about the universe - namely that all that exists is what can be perceived. The main character of the book "Ransom" personifies the humility one must have in order to accept the "real" things. The antagonist's "Weston," who I believe personifies all that encompasses the Western worldview and "Devine," who embodies that inclination that all fallen human beings have to "be God" - are both representative of what our modern western society is and accurately depicts what fallen man truly looks like in the midst of the world that is pure and free from fear.This says a lot about my interpretation of the book, but little about the story itself. There are plenty reviews here to explain the story of the book, so I hope that my review at least gives another perspective on the underlying theme of the book.
5 I have read this book twice.  It is an awesome read, which introduces you to an awesome book trilogy.  It has some fascinating creatures, and a very clear good-vs-evil story.  A must-read.
4 C. S. Lewis' first science fiction book propels us into a very different kind of adventure. A philologist is kidnapped by 2 scientists and taken to Malacandra, only to find the native creatures both alien and noble. Lewis conjures up more than one sentient race for this world and each is fascinating, though my favorite is the hrossa, But there is another kind of creature who rules the planet and what it wants with our fugitive hero is a mystery. Philosophical and theological issues also arise in this intriguing look at what a world without sin might be like.
5 C.S. Lewis is best known for his classic fantasy series The Chronicles of Narnia. But he's in his best form in the sprawling Space Trilogy. And the first volume &quot;Out of the Silent Planet&quot; is a solid, dreamy slice of imaginative science fiction with deep philosophical underpinnings.Philologist (studies languages) Dr. Ransom is on a walking tour of England when he encounters a former despised schoolmate, Devine. Things take a nasty turn after Devine and his accomplice Weston drug Ransom, and load him onto a spaceship. Over the course of a month's interstellar travel, Ransom learns that they are travelling to the planet Malacandra (Mars) -- and worst, he's destined to be a human sacrifice.Ransom manages to escape after they land, and finds himself alone in an alien world. He soon is taken in by the otterlike hrossa, and learns that there are three sentient species on Malacandra: the peaceful poetry-loving hrossa, the workaholic pfifltriggi, and intelligent seroni. When a hross friend of Ransom's is killed by the murderous humans, he sets out to find the mysterious, powerful Oyarsa, who might be able to help him and stop his kidnappers.&quot;Out of the Silent Planet&quot; is no space opera. Lewis avoids most of the tendencies of typical sci-fi in favor of a more H.G. Wells approach. Big fleshy plants, sentient otters, decreased gravity and petrified forests really give it the feeling of another planet without using cheap tricks.The most striking idea of &quot;Planet&quot; is the people who populate it -- three dissimilar species, who work together and have no problems like war, starvation, lies, power-lust or any of the other problems that human beings have. It's a stark contrast to our own world, and it illustrates a lot of Lewis's own Christian beliefs without being preachy or silly.The tone of &quot;Planet&quot; is generally very somber and thought-provoking, with long stretches of ethical and philosophical dialogue. Parts of it almost seem like a dream, very eerie and surreal, and the dignified personalities of Oyarsa and his underlings are beautifully done. But Lewis rips loose with some comedy from time to time, like Weston trying to bribe the various natives with a cheap necklace and Tarzan-esque threats of &quot;Why you take our puff-bangs [guns] away? We very angry with you!&quot;Lewis based Ransom partly on his pal, fantasy author J.R.R. Tolkien, and Ransom is a nicely done hero; he's not boring or preachy at all, but merely a &quot;stranger in a strange land&quot; who almost goes bonkers once or twice, but manages to triumph. Weston and Devine, on the other hand, are arrogant and dumb in an all-too-recognizable way. And the inhabitants of Malacandra take a little getting used to, but they're pleasant once you do.&quot;Out of the Silent Planet&quot; still stands up as a vivid and beautifully-written piece of science fiction. You think you know C.S. Lewis after the Narnia Chronicles? Try the Space Trilogy.
5 Great Book.  Arrived in excellent condition.  Firm binding and pages.  As is all of CS Lewis's works, it is excellent.
5 ...and Lewis does an excellent job combining opinions on ethics, religion and the fundamentals of humanity into an entertaining tale. I am a sci-fi author myself, and what I've found is that many sci-fi writers either sacrifice a good story in order to make a strong point, or they fail to make a point at all in an effort to create a fun story. Lewis is adept at providing both.Interestingly, although I am an avid sci-fi reader (obviously), I had never read much of Lewis' work until now. I recently picked up Out of the Silent Planet because someone compared the main character from my own book to that of Ransom. There's no way I could hear such a comparison and not immediately rush off to buy the book and see for myself... after all, being compared to a classic author such as Lewis is a real honor!Reading the book from this angle caused me to focus deeply on the literary structure and character development within the book. Ransom is a character that you can relate to immediately -- despite the generational gaps between author and reader -- and you can understand his fear, wonder, and intrigue as he finds himself on a new world. The descriptions are inspiring yet not overly lost in details, allowing the reader to use his or her own imagination to create a landscape and society as diverse and colorful as Ransom himself must have found it.In short, he successfully delivers a sense of wonder and amazement to the reader. The action, dialog, etc. are well used as well, but it is definitely the sense of adventure and awe that made me slap my forehead and say &quot;why haven't I read this until now?&quot;While many younger readers may balk at the language (which has a decidedly &quot;old&quot; feel to it), I would recommend this as required reading. It is as much something to learn from as it is to enjoy.
5 STORY: Dr. Ransom is kidnapped by two other scientists and wisked away to the world of Malacandra. His wouldbe kidnappers think they are brining him to be a sacrafice to the beings of that planet. What happens is an adventure of discovery and facing the truth about human nature, which forever changes Ransom.MY FEEDBACK:1) SETTING - C.S. Lewis just shines in his descriptions of new, exotic places and the beings that live there. His vivid details allow the reader to create a wonderful mental image of a world totally different from our own. Very, very nicely done.2) CHARACTERS - The cast of characters consists of Dr. Ransom, Dr. Weston, Dr. Devine and the various beings found on Malacandra (sorns, hross, pfifltrigg and Oyarsa). Every character has a purpose and is allogoric of something greater, which is sometimes clearly demonstrated and at other times left to the reader to interpret. At no point was I bored or upset at stereotypes when reading about these characters. Even if you don't see the allogories they represent they are still intriguing and unpredictable.3) STORY - I read somewhere that this story is a retelling of the Christ story from the Bible. I didn't see that. Yes, there were some similarities such as the Bent One could be Satan and his fall from heaven. Otherwise, just reading the first book I didn't feel like I was bring preached out or given a Bible Study of any type. It was an intriguing sci-fi story of discovery.Also, like many secular sci-fi books written prior to 1950, this book makes clear commentary on human society. In other words if someone puts this book down because of the social commentary then that reader is unfamiliar with such literary trends as mentioned. I did prefer this author's handling of social commentary more than other authors of the time that I've read.Lastly, the book is written very well. Many times I felt like I was reading poetry instead of a sci-fi novel. C.S. Lewis' professional handling of the written prose is very, very enjoyable and appreciated.OVERALL - I can't think of anything wrong with this story. It had action, a mystery, suspense, discovery, aliens, space-flight, characters true to their nature, social commentary, allogory AND all this squeezed into less than 160 pages. In many ways this books ends with most of the story resolved so there doesn't seem to be an immediate need to read the rest of the trilogy. BUT...if you like this first book like I did then you'll find very little reason not to rush out and continue reading right away. A very enjoyable sci-fi read.
5 I absolutly loved this book & recommend it highly. Move's along smoothly with wonderful detail's of the world Malacandra.
1 I find that top 100 lists to a great source of ideas for reading material. I've seen this book repeatedly listed in things like the top 100 Science Fiction books. This lead me to think that this might be a great book. I was sorely disappointed. It's simply a dull book. It's a story of a man of a travel to Mars where he meets new creatures and cultures - that's about it. But it's just not interesting. I can't see why people rate this book so highly. Maybe I missed something but I can't honestly say that this is a book worth reading.I suspect that I wasn't the only person bored with this book. I read the Kindle version of the book and it does contain a few OCR errors like &#34;'I'm&#34; being rendered as &#34;Tm&#34;. But though the first part of the book was acceptable, by the last chapter the proof reader seems to have gotten bored into sleep and was letting in a whole range of errors, right through to half paragraphs missing.
5 There's no denying that C. S. Lewis is one of the great writers of the 20th century and it's fast becoming the case that any truly literate person must be familiar with his work. Embarrassingly, I had never read his celebrated Space Trilogy, of which "Out of the Silent Planet" is the first installment. Simply put, the book is a quick, enjoyable read as simply fantasy/science fiction.Granted, it's not what most folks would consider modern sci-fi. Lewis hews closer to the classic format used by H. G. Wells than the sex and violence-laden style used by most contemporary writers. However, the true genius of the work is the philosophical/metaphysical themes that run just below the surface. Sadly, some of this was spoiled for me because I had previously been given a "heads-up" about certain specifics discussed in the series. For that reason, I won't go into them here in this review. I think the book is an even better read if you don't know what to expect going in.Suffice it to say, that "Out of the Silent Planet" is a wonderful book--intellectual but not heavy and overly grandiose. Read it. If you like books that entertain and make you think, you won't be disappointed.
3 This first installment of The Space Trilogy takes us on a moral journey through space hinting that maybe it is we who are the &quot;not so friendly alien race&quot; for a change.  Some portions of this book would make HG  Wells proud but I found the religious undertones a bit tiring.  I have not  as of yet read the other two books in the trilogy, but Out of the Silent  Planet held my curiousity long enough for me to consider doing so.  If I  could give half stars i would throw this pamphlet-esq novel 3 1/2.
4 There is obviously more to those book than simply a fanciful story about a trip to Mars.  Lewis is trying to make a comment about our society and how we relate to each other.  The inhabitants of Malacandra all respected one another.  Is such a thing possible in a world that is corrupted by original sin?  That is the real question.
5 One of the things that I really appreciate about C.S. Lewis is the way in which a great deal of his fictional writing seems to flesh out the ideas found in his non-fiction works. His stories are not just stories, but are often attempts to show how certain theological or philosophical positions might look in the world of everyday experience. His philosophy and theology are incarnated through his stories, so to speak. This offers the student of Lewis a chance to see how the ideas, theories, and beliefs promoted and discussed in his non-fiction works might play out in the &quot;real&quot; world. The works of the Space Trilogy parallel closely and deal with a lot of the same subject matter that is covered in Lewis' non-fiction work &quot;The Abolition of Man&quot;, as well as many of his other, shorter writings, particularly on such subjects as science and technology, morality, and theology.In &quot;Out of the Silent Planet&quot; we first meet the character Ransom, who is kidnapped and taken on an interplanetary journey to Mars where he begins to learn about the true nature of the universe and the place our world occupies in it. This is also where we meet the first of various characters who, throughout the Trilogy, represent false, pernicious, and morally bankrupt views of the nature of the universe, and, more importantly, do not want to know the truth. Throughout the Trilogy, the forces of truth and goodness, mostly embodied in Ransom and some of his companions, must attempt to thwart and defeat the wicked schemes of those who refuse to acknowledge or embrace the truth. The schemes become more horrific and the action more intense with each successive book. In &quot;Perelandra&quot; Ransom must attempt to thwart the enemy's plans for the young planet Venus, while &quot;That Hideous Strength&quot; turns it's attention to the battle here at home.The writing in these books is at a very high level, full of beautiful description and deep theological and philosophical reflections about the nature of the universe we inhabit. Yet the stories themselves are also gripping, and are full of interesting and imaginative ideas of what things might be like on these other planets. In some ways, these books might almost be called anti-science fiction, because instead of using the story form simply to speculate about what scientific or technological advances might bring us in the future, Lewis attempts to show us how the inhabitants of these other planets would be real spiritual and moral beings, and to warn us about the possible consequences of allowing a morally and spiritually bankrupt scientific and technological elite to define our lives and our universe.These books stand head and shoulders over most science fiction writing and are worthy of the title of classics.
5 If one can fathom the writing (read that &#34;of an author educated in England in the &#34;20s or so, in an upper class, at well-to-do schools/college(s) and who leaks through his writing, possession of not too much knowledge of the &#34;lower classes and less educated, the Silent Planet is a fun and interesting novel, thoy requiring a bit of slogging thru at times..  Of course he had to depend on fantasy, there was virtually no detailed information about heavenly bodies when the Trilogy was written.  His transposition of old earth legends into a solar system wide family argument was masterful.  He did a thorough and complete writing job.  I wish he had survived to learn of the real facts about the planets..
5 Along with Lord of the World, these three by Lewis made very interesting and even inspirational reading.  I read the three through, one-after-another, because of the well-formed story.
1 I know it's only 160 pages long, but it was agonizing. It was such a struggle to comprehend the &quot;alien&quot; words, that I couldn't follow the plot, let alone find the &quot;deeper&quot; meaning.There's what I got. A fellow named Ransom gets kiddnaped by &quot;evil&quot; men, who just happen to own a working spaceship. They take him to Mars for some bizzare reason. He wanders around learning the aliens language. The descriptions of the aliens are so vague, I couldn't tell one from another. Then he finds the evil men and goes back to Earth.The end.Dull huh?
4 The book has a tongue-in-cheek tone that I loved, so British !!!The story is itself interesting, but I loved the most the way of telling the un-plausible story of a classic Englishman (almost brought up from Conan Doyle's pages) who engages in inter-planetary travel ... and at that without the expense of lots of technology !!!The philosophical discussion about the state of word affairs and the silence of Gods is not far away from Tolkien's mythological story of the world. All in all an excellent book, that will leave you thinking
3 It was hard to keep with this book.  I admire C.S. Lewis for his philosophy and ideas, but his writing style is not compelling to read.  Certainly his views about Martians, and extraterrestrial life is different than other accounts, but it isn't until nearly the end of the book that it becomes interesting enough to want to keep reading.  I had read &#34;Screw Tape Letters&#34; and enjoyed it in an appalling way, feeling he had pretty well nailed the situations presented, but also could not read a lot at a time.  However, that was not from the style but more from the content, which is a bit overwhelming.  This book, however, has not made me interested in the rest of the trilogy.
4 Sometimes learning is like sunbathing. You soak up wisdom like you soak up rays--changing, even though you can't pinpoint every little drop that touched you.I say that because today I completed the second book in C. S. Lewis' Space Trilogy. True, I can't name one thing I learned (and this series is much more about exploring concepts than telling a story), but I feel very wise. Before you laugh too hard, let me say that my spirit is quiet right now. It's still. Rested. Open. In awe. Ready to receive.Today I will continue resting, listening. Tomorrow I'll go back over the pages and remind myself what I learned. (And then I'll start the third book.)I highly recommend these book, but read them only when you have lots of time to reflect.
2 I don't know what else to say about this book, other than that it doesn't seem to have much of a concept. Guy goes to Mars, wanders around with alien races, learns that humans are screwed up, goes home. There, I just saved you a couple of hours.
2 I'm not an avid Sci-Fi reader but came with high expectations, CS Lewis being the writer of the Narnia series, which I read as a child, many, many years ago.I didn't enjoy this novel, with the exception, of Lewis' wonderful descriptive language. In particular, the way he describes the beauty of Malacandra is breathtaking.I thought I was reading something akin to the Planet of the Apes, but without the sense of foreboding that one feels when you watched the TV series version of the aforementioned. I was so tempted to put the novel down, but have a personal policy not to do that, and figured as it was only 150+ pages I'd grin and bear it.Yes, there is a message there about good vs evil and God, but I don't think it was that inspiring or significant.I'm sure my conclusions are heavily influenced by the fact that I don't typically read such novels. I won't be reading the 2 sequels.
5 A crisply written delving into the Western humanoid psyche. Lewis's unparalleled imagination weaves a thought provoking portrayal of our societal strictures - themes as apropos today as when originally published in 1938.
5 I've never met a C.S. Lewis book I didn't like and this trilogy was no exception.  They can all be read independently but are even better as a series.  Such beautiful imagery, character development, and soul searching.  Just superb.
4 Famous for his Narnia novels for children, CS Lewis breaks out into the sci-fantasy genre with this amazing lead in to his Cosmic Trilogy. The descriptions are graphic and intricate, creating not just a way of life and  a complete planet but a new order of society where everyone has their own  place without being overshadowed. Dr Ransom's attempts to qualify what he  is seeing show how naive the human race can be, and how easily they can be  saved when he is brought face to face with the leader-father-god of the  planet Malacandra, Oysara, who sets him with a task which leads him into  the next novel: PERELANDRA. A truly amazing read and well worth the time,  if a little overshadowed by modern knowledge of Mars.
4 This is top-class SF! C.S. Lewis always writes with wisdom and imagiantion, nw I look forward to read the rest og his triology. If you like his books about Narnia, you'll love this!
5 my cousins husband recommended this to me because i told him i didnt like reading.this is the first book ive finished in about 6 or 7 years. C.S Lewis is a magician with his words and truly challenges you with his writing and themes throughout this book. it is short, intelligent, and has a great way of opening many doors in your head before you read the next book.i highly recommend this for its good price and fun read
5 I was given this book by my friend on my 18th Birthday. I have never been a science fiction fan so this story got set on the shelf for awhile. When I did pick it up I realized what I had been missing. While this story does get a little confusing at times, the general message is clear. The world has become a sad place to live. I am now even more of a fan of C.S. Lewis. His stories continue to inspire and teach me. Pick up this book and get ready for an adventure.
4 Ransom is backpacking when he runs into a former college schoolmate. While he never got along well with Devine, Ransom never expected to be drugged and kidnapped. Soon he found himself in a strange room where he didn't know which end was up. Later Professor Weston informed him that it was a room in a spherical ship which was travelling through space.After landing, Ransom managed to escape and discovered different creatures, language and way of life. When he runs into Devine and Weston again, he learns that they want to conquer each planet and eventually the universe.Lewis always has an interesting way of painting his analogies and metaphors. His Narnia series is great so I look forward to reading more of this Sci-fi series.
5 One of the best books I have read. It is a pretty easy read, as is most of Lewis' fiction. BUT it is also very deep. You can read it just on the surface level and be very entertained, but if you think about it more deeply, you will find a LOT of rich material.
4 Let's see: a rabidly fascist scientist and a totally corrupt and wealthy businessman kidnap a boring linguistics professor who is a Christian. They intend to offer him over to the alien mercies of the creatures who inhabit the planet Mars, in return for the boatloads of gold that can be dug up there and hauled home to earth. Once landed on Mars, the Christian professor escapes, and the middle part of the book becomes a sort of travel log of Malacandra (Mars, in our vernacular). The final part of the book descends into worthwhile satire, as a god-like creature brings all the humans to court to hear out the matter and make a judgment.Yes, if you are looking for a cracking good read in the styles of 1950's sci-fi, you will be disappointed. If you are looking for somebody to give the plan of salvation at the end to see who gets saved, you will never get the point of the book.OOTSP depicts a universe that runs smoothly and beautifully, with each planet ruled by an Oyarsa (an angel) who, we assume, answers up a chain to Christ, or God. The material creatures of the planet Malacandra are the obedient but mostly self-governing subjects of the Oyarsa. The book can be tedious as Lewis spells out this world of sinless perfection and flesh and blood realities like danger, sex, child-bearing, and even death. The best part of the book is the last 20 percent, when Ransom, the main character, must act as translator between his two human counterparts and the sinless Oyarsa who questions them. Lewis is at his best then, depicting stubborn sinners defending their sin to a sinless creature.What many critics of OUT OF THE SILENT PLANET miss is that Lewis reconciles science as far as he understood it (or as far as science understood the solar system) at that time with the medieval construct of the universe as God's domain, from which man is excluded. Lewis took the step, radical for his time, of writing out space as a sea of life, not a vast and cold wasteland of death.If you like to think, this book is worth reading. If you want the ready-made, shallow and superficial glop sold today as Christian fiction, this book will be a reading of the oblique and incomprehensible.
5 While I do not think that this series is anywhere near as good as the Narnian Chronicles (with the exception of Perelandra, which is perhaps my second favorite Lewis book behind only Till We Have Faces), it is still incredibly good.I noticed that a previous reviewer said that "His major defect is that he can never quite succeed in suppressing his didactic Christianity."  Why on earth would you think that he had even been trying to suppress his Christianity?  I think what you mean is that he does not repress his Christianity as you wish he would have.  A piece of advice:  if you read something by C. S. Lewis, expect it to be Christian.  It is absurd to excpect him to write  non-Christian novel; that would be like expecting a blue pen to suddenly let loose a flood of red ink.  Lewis meant for his books to be Christian.  Parts of this book are obviously alligorical (i.e. "the Bent One", etc.), and I do not think that Lewis had any intention of hiding this.  For my part, I am very happy that he did this, as it not only provides good, fun reading, but also provides valuable truths to be gleaned from it.I was going to give this book 4 stars, but then I couldn't think of anything bad about it (other than perhaps a bit of misinformation about outer-space, but we can hardly fault Lewis for that, since he wrote this long before any man-made thing had ever been to space), so I changed my rating to 5 stars.I highly reccomend this book, if for no other reason that to get to the second in the series, Perelandra, which is amazing.
4 'Out of the silent of planet' has this feeling of your typical old fiction space story. Throughout the story there is suspense moments and in other there is comtemplation of beauty and ethereal picturing. The reason i bought this book was for an apparent analogy with christianity; that was my main expectancy. Now this fiction story seems to bring a subtle analogy, that of sin and even subtler of God and the Devil. So in that sense i was not satisfied, i thought it was going to be a bit more clear. I felt what C.S. Lewis wanted to portray was morality and its depravation.Now despite its analogy subtleness i still enjoyed it as a fiction story, its journey appeal and the etheral descriptions. Finally for my conclusion I might be misunderstanding Lewis' writing, but it could have been a more direct analogy of christianity if that was Lewis' portrayal, but despite that it is still a remarkable space story that is not easy to equalize.
4 Lewis uses this story well as a platform to communicate profound lessons about human nature, spirituality, natural law, social customs, etc.  The concept for the book is impressive, especially considering its publication date of 1938.  The story focuses more on dialogue and thematic development than action or adventure, though there are certainly a few such scenes.  While this is an enjoyable read, the style and pace of the book are sure to make it less accessible if the reader doesn't approach the book with proper expectations.  This is not a page-turner, but a story with a philosophical and theological focus.  I recommend this book for those who are ready for science fiction in a slightly different gear.  If you approach the book in this way, you will be richly rewarded.  If you are looking for fast-paced space action, you are setting yourself up for disappointment.
4 I found this book to be quite strange. It is a fictitious book that makes you search your soul, but because it is science fiction the learning curve is curvier! I recommend that you give it a whirl!
1 Mere Christianity.  The Chronicles of Narnia.  The Great Divorce.  The Screwtape Letters.  The Weight of Glory.  The Problem of Pain.  A Grief Observed.  The Abolition of Man.  Outside of his memoir Surprised by Joy, every book that I have read by C.S. Lewis has been outstanding.  His fantasy is a classic of the genre and it is recommended one reads Narnia at various stages of life to get the full effect, his essays are excellent, Mere Christianity is one of the more important and influential books in modern Christianity.  Why, then, did I hesitate for so long before starting the first volume of his Space Trilogy?  Did I have some premonition?  Everything else has been stellar.And then comes Out of the Silent Planet.  I couldn't have been more dissappointed.  It's the story of a man named Ransom who is out walking in England when he meets a man he knew back in school.  The man, and a cohort, knock Ransom out, kidnap him, and take him to another planet: Malacandra.  There Ransom escapes his captors and discovers various alien creatures and learns about their culture (not humanoid at all) and tries to figure out what exactly he should do next and where exactly he is.  Malacandra is far more familiar than he would have thought, and the reader can probably guess early on which planet we're talking about here.Fairly simple story, but it's all in the telling.  Lewis must have missed something that has served him well in his other fiction, because I could not have been more weary of this book.  The action is told in such a way that even when these big events are happening (travelling to another planet, first contact with a sentient alien race, speaking with a nearly divine creature), it feels like nothing is happening.  I'm not sure how that could be.  Lewis described creation in The Magician's Nephew and the end of creation as we know it in The Last Battle, and it was wonderful.  By the time I hit the fifth and sixth chapters I was simply waiting for it all to end.  It didn't matter.  Thankfully this was a short novel, otherwise I may have put it down without finishing, but I feel bad.  I wanted to like this book, I like the work of C.S. Lewis.  I'm sure somewhere in this trilogy there is a built in Christ story like the Narnia books, but I don't think I'm going to find out.  I can't imagine picking up Perelandra and trying to read it.  There are plenty of books by Lewis which I haven't read and I'm sure they are all far superior to Out of the Silent Planet.They'd have to be.-Joe Sherry
5 I love this book because of Lewis' awesome style and the handling of several deep theological issues clearly and convincingly. Its a story of good and evil. It is an older work so the science doesn't hold up, but the story overcomes that and remains timeless. I reread this often.
5 C. S. Lewis' OUT OF THE SILENT PLANET is a great read.  It is well written and takes you on a curious journey - leading you to ask, "What would I do?".
3 My least favorite of the trilogy, but an important set up to the other two. The main character, Ransom, is kidnapped and taken to the planet Malacandra, where he discovers that the rest of the universe is in harmony with God - that is, everywhere except earth (the silent planet).There's some great nuggets in this book - on the nature of sin and temptation, as well as reflections on epistemology and cosmology. I wasn't crazy about the dialogue, and I had often had trouble picturing what Lewis was describing in Malacandra (though that may owe to my own lack of imagination).It's worth the read, if for no other reason than to prepare you to read the second book in the series, Perelandra.
5 This book is a marvel for Christian readers. The power of fiction and fantasy worlds is in the idealistic viewpoint they provide. As Christians, we know from Scripture how the world is governed, and how we are to walk in it, but at times our vision gets clouded by constantly looking at our surroundings, and the depravity we see all around. But when we read novels with idealized settings such as in C.S. Lewis's space trilogy, we can more readily understand the fundamentals of joy, wonder, and awe at the world, under the governance of reverence for the creator.Out of the Silent Planet takes readers on a tour of what life would be like without the curse of the fall. The Malacandrian world is immensely beautiful and orderly, under the governance of Oyarsa, who submits to the Old One, God. The hnau, or inhabitants of the world, are so peaceful and innocent, and they offer abundant insights into proper conduct in life. I constantly found myself smiling as I saw the parallels between the various components of the book and Christian doctrine.Non-Christians will enjoy this book as well, of course. It is a fascinating story regardless of what you believe, although C.S. Lewis surely wrote it from a Christian worldview, and I appreciate on a deeper level since I'm a Christian.
4 Out of the Silent Planet is an interesting piece of science fiction, a genre I am beginning to enjoy.  C.S. Lewis takes us on a fascinating journey to Malacandra (Mars).  While there is very little scientific value to the book (hence fiction), the book has profound insights into the condition of humanity.  Through the adventures of Dr. Ransom, we not only imagine the intriguing world of Malacandra, but we see the contrast between a culture or world relatively ignorant of evil, selfishness, and greed with the newly entered evil accompanying Ransom.
5 If you love sci-fi, read this book. If you love theology, read this book.  CS Lewis does an ingenious job of masking the Christian story of man's fall and redemption in a page-turning original sci-fi story.  If you aren't a Christian you'd never know it.  If you are, it is a novel way to approach our age-old gospel.  And for both, it is a memorable story much to be enjoyed.
5 I read this trilogy after reading Lewis's delightful series, The Chronicles of Narnia.  I was totally unprepared for the insightful criticisms and tough disposition displayed in the books after reading the Narnian books that were colorful and fun.  I quickly adapted to his more difficult style of writing, and began to understand that beneath the oddly beautiful science fiction novels there was a high level of spirituality, not found in many books.  There was also several basic criticisms Lewis makes about the world he is living in, including human greed, imperialism, (Out of The Silent Planet and Perelandra), conformity (That Hideous Strength), among other things.The first two books of this trilogy are basically about Ransom's adventures and sets up the events that are going to occur in That Hideous Strength.  They outline the segregation of the Silent Planet, and give the history of the eldil. They also contain an exciting good versus evil plot line that is extremely complex.  The third book takes up where Perelandra left off, but follows the actions of a Mark Studdock and his wife, Jane, instead of Ransom.  In an exciting, but tremendously thorough book Lewis ties all the threads of the plot line together and gives an apocalyptic conclusion.The series is great and is definetly a Sci-Fi epic worthy of your time and effort to read.  It is a difficult book to read, not recommended for children, but is definetly recommend for those who like religious undertones, or those who enjoy great ability and creativity.
5 What an amazing mind C. S. Lewis had!  A tremendous story teller, and a great man of God, he has inspired my writing.  I love this book, and the imagery that he produces.  Since reading this, I've often wondered about our "bent" planet and what we would see if only we had the proper eyes.
4 Its an allegory with a smidgen of sci-fi ("speculative" fiction), but Out of the Silent Planet is surprisingly a deftly written and enjoyable tale. Though it may be a Christian discourse, I found the themes of the "bentness" of human nature and the propensity for xenophobia to be more philosophical.Some people may like to point out the implausibility of three intelligent co-existing species on one planet, or the flimsy science, but this book is so much more than mere cold hard science & logic, as was displayed through the character of Weston. The calculating physicist defends humanity's viral nature as only the result of the "survival of the fittest" and humans will take over Malacandra with our superior technology and war. Conversely, the Malacandrians take the "live and let die" attitude. They think the human fear of death, desire for limitless wealth, and abhorrence to monogamy to be pointless (hmm... must be Buddhists) which brings Ransom to the conclusion that perhaps we are the morally inferior species. That is why humans have come "out of the silent planet" as, unlike Malacandra, its moral ruler has fallen and has no voice in the heavens (space for the ahtiests, heh)The diction was pretty smooth, not all the authoritarian British style I was expecting. The pace was suspenseful - easily done on a strange planet with unknown friends and terrors around ever corner. Out of the Silent Planet has suspense, a tightly woven plot, characters with real conflict - everything that makes a strong, compelling book. It only needs more! So, read the whole series.
4 I did like the story. I've read 7 of Lewis's non-fiction works and really expected this bookto have some spectacular impact on my thinking. That did not happen, but  that was possibly my lack. I'm waiting for 2 and 3 of the Trilogy-Maybe the light will come on.
4 I was hoping for something closer to the Chronicles of Narnia.  This was not my favorite of his writings.  I found this rather boring.  In many cases you could say a few words but he says hundreds.  If you thought you were reading about fast paced adventures you won't.  The basic stories are different and his ideas interesting.  I just won't wade through them again.
5 Every time I reread this, I am amazed at Lewis' insights.  It sets a high standard for Science fiction. Whileignoring aspects of science involved in space travel, it is a good intro for the hero, and leads to great adventure in next two books.
4 You probably know that C.S. Lewis was a Christian apologist who wrote many popular books -- both fiction and nonfiction -- which explain or defend the Christian faith. His most famous work, THE CHRONICLES OF NARNIA, some of the most-loved stories in all of fantasy fiction and children's literature, is clearly Christian allegory. Likewise, his science fiction SPACE TRILOGY can be read as allegory, though it's subtle enough to be enjoyed by those who don't appreciate allegorical stories and just want to read a thoughtful science fiction adventure with an intelligent hero.In Out of the Silent Planet, the first book in the trilogy, Dr. Elwin Ransom, a Cambridge philology professor, is kidnapped and taken by spaceship to Mars, which is called Malacandra by the alien species that live there. Suspecting that he's about to be offered as a sacrifice, Ransom escapes from his captors and must survive by himself on the strange planet. There, he is enchanted by the beautifully foreign scenery, meets aliens who are nothing like humans, learns about the origin of the species on Malacandra and Earth and, finally, morosely reflects on the fallen nature of mankind.I liked everything about Out of the Silent Planet -- the descriptions of the spherical space ship and the planet of Malacandra, the idea that space is full and living instead of empty and dead, the development of Ransom from a conservative college professor to a daring space traveler, the interesting metaphysics and the ideas about the perception of light and movement, the allegorical explanation of humanity's greed and selfishness which suggests a spiritual origin for social Darwinism. Best of all was Ransom's translation of one of his captor's speeches about human destiny for aliens who previously had no concept of human ambition and aggression.It's easy to see that C.S. Lewis loved language, mythology and knowledge, and that he was ashamed of much human behavior. The Christian allegory is easy to see, too, if you're willing, but discussing that here would require spoilers and remove all the mystery, so I will leave that for you to discover.Out of the Silent Planet was written in 1938, long before we knew enough about Mars to realize that Lewis's story is impossible. However, Lewis did his best with the knowledge he had, settling his Martians in the trench-like canals and leaving the surface dead. Generally, the story doesn't feel as old as it is.I listened to Blackstone Audio's version, 5 hours long, which was read by Geoffrey Howard who I liked very much. I look forward to listening to him read the next book in the SPACE TRILOGY, Perelandra.Originally posted at FanLit.
4 I must admit this is the first of CS Lewis' sci-fi I've read. I'm a huge Narnia fan, loved Screwtape, and much of Lewis' nonfiction.I found the beginning a bit hard to get into. I'm not sure why--can't pinpoint it. It simply took effort to make myself keep reading. Not overly so, however, or I'd have given up.About a third of the way in, I found I could hardly put it down. I really began to feel that connection with Ransom and the world of Malacandra, and loved watching Ransom grow as a character. The pacing evened out to a perfect balance of thought and action. And of course Lewis' picturesque writing made it all the better.
5 It seems as though the success of the Lord of the Rings trilogy has inspired filmmakers to tackle another huge project, and they have settled on CS Lewis' Narnia books, taking a flyer with Andrew Adamson's production first of the LION, THE WITCH AND THE WARDROBE.  If you ask me (of course no one did LOL), this space trilogy of Lewis' would have been a natural, for some of its virtues could be reproduced on film, and perhaps the scope of film could have salvaged some of its weaknesses.As many have noticed, OUT OF THE SILENT PLANET, while giant in conception, is the tightest of the three, and each book becomes more of a baggy monster than the one before.  Dr. Ransom is introduced, and kidnapped to an alien planet where overtones of Miltonic good and evil tickle the fancy of the reader while provoking a great deal of suspense as to his fate, and the fate of the whole universe.Ransom is a fascinating character, scientist blended with he-man and activist--would have been perfect for Sean Connery, say, twenty years ago.In the meantime I urge all readers to give OUT OF THE SILENT PLANET a try, even if you're not into science fiction per se.  It has a great deal to tell us about the world we all still live in right now.
4 Although this short fictional work suffers from serious grammatical style errors, as well as Lewis' annoying habit of taking a simple sentence and metamorphosing it into a collectional labryinth of archaic and obscure terms, it deserves praise as an early classical work of fictional space-time travel.My biggest complaint with this book is that it hooks you into reading the other two in the series (Perelandra, That Hideous Strength), which in my mind, fall far short of the quality of the original book. This deterioration is apparent but acceptable in "Perelandra"; however, it culminates in "That Hideous Strength" where Lewis seems to drift aimlessly among topics of space travel and other worlds, to British monarchistic nationalism, Arthurian legends, angelology, human psychology, reincarnation, mad scientists, and marriage life.In short, while I enjoyed this novel and gained some pleasure from Perelandra, the final book was a horrible amalgamation of aimless themes, lacked a concise plot, and left the reader (at least this reader) disappointed.
2 Unfortunately, I didn't find this very good. I hardly had a picture for anything anyone looked like and it was quite confusing. I wanted to finish this, And I partly rushed through it to get it over with. Unfortunately, 2/5.
2 This was a little slow going for my liking.  It felt a little disconnected at times.  I thought I'd enjoy it because I think C.S. Lewis is a great writer but I was disappointed.
5 I was sucked into to the story in the 1st chapter.  The story is well written and keep me engaged until the end.  C.S Lewis does a great job balancing the amount of action & dialog with the description of the ship, planet and charters.  I was really able to imagine the planet and creatures.  While it's is not a nail-biter... there was more than enough action and suspense to keep me engaged and wondering where the story would lead.Other have mentioned that the social commentary is dated or offensive... But I disagree.  I think the issues raised are timeless and relevant today.  I enjoyed thinking about life and ethics from a different perspective.
5 Who knew Lewis did science fiction.  I sure didn't till I stumbled on this.  We read the first installment on loan from a friend and then had to have the whole set.  Great read.
5 Lewis wrote the Space Trilogy as a response to the evil communist propaganda written by Olaf Stapledon, which is pure science fiction and one of the most influential and representative examples of why science fiction, as such, is the most degenerate excuse for literature the modern world has produced.The Space Trilogy isn't science fiction, but science fantasy, and indeed very possibly the single greatest work of science fantasy. This first book could be called "sword and planet" without the swords. The prose, while superb and far above genre standards, isn't quite as accomplished as Jack Vance's best work and Lewis doesn't have the literary trickery of, say, a Gene Wolfe, but the philosophical depth is far greater than anything else in the genre and the imaginative quality is equal to anyone's. And of course, unlike some of the lesser lights in the genre, Lewis openly defends the perennial philosophy and attacks the evils of modernity, which he saw with such clarity.Many have tried to define the essential difference between those fraternal twins of the imagination: science fiction and fantasy. The definitions provided by most of the writers in the genres are not helpful because they deal with what is "scientifically" possible in reality and what is not, but the notions of what is science and what is real held by modern westerners are actually very far removed from reality and are the basest form of fantasy themselves. Or else it ends up in some notion of the setting being in the future versus the past.But to me it is simple enough, and not a matter of something as trivial as setting. It is a fundamental oppositional philosophical difference. Science fiction is not so much about the future as it is about the modern. Sci-fi defends modernity, in fact revels in it. Its basic worldview is that man makes "progress" and that the future will consist of more and more of this "progress", in some upward spiral of ever increasing (and ultimately superficial) materialistic excess, leading finally to the stars and beyond. Fantasy, on the other hand, is not so much about the past as about the rejection of modernity; it wants to take us not into external, material excess but into the internal world, a better world that might once have existed, or, if it never did, the world as it SHOULD exist.Since progress is the central farce, the pivotal lie of our decadent time, it should be no surprise that science fiction has produced nothing that could be called literature, whereas fantasy has produced the greatest classics of the last century or so.Science fantasy is nothing but fantasy fiction using the trappings of alien planets, spaceships, rayguns and so on as mere tropes; fantasy in a different costume. Or fantasy hoisting the enemy on his own petard. Unlike science fiction, which is anti-literature, science fantasy is distinctly against the current of the modern world. Dune, or the first Star Wars movie are science fantasy; Star Trek is science fiction. But the easiest way to tell science fantasy from science fiction is simply this: fantasy never ages, whereas science fiction has a shelf life of about a year or two. Go back and read the books of Asimov or Heinlein or Dick or any other old science fiction. The anachronisms render it just about unreadable. (Even aside from the materialistic, atheistic, progressive tendencies that so pollute it philosophically - and whether it is considered left wing like Dick or right wing like Heinlein, it is really all the same from a spiritual perspective). But Out of the Silent Planet, which is much older, hasn't aged a day.And that's why people are still reading The Space Trilogy, and will be for another hundred years, if indeed the world of man lasts that long.
3 "Out of the Silent Planet" is the first in C.S. Lewis' Sci-Fi trilogy. Published in 1938, I suspect this was a very imaginative book as it features manned-flight to Mars, something that we still haven't pulled off nearly 75 years later. Given that we have pictures of Mars, I had to continually tell myself the book could never happen because the story features humans that are able to survive on Mars as if it were another earth.If you can put aside all the reasons why the book is not possible, it is an interesting read especially when Dr. Ransom, the protagonist of the story, interacts with a spiritual being called the Oyarsa, and with the various inhabitants of the planet.The book forces you to think about mankind, and its motivations, as Dr. Ransom describes our race to the aliens. If you so choose, you can easily read into it the Christian theology that Lewis places in various characters both on Mars and Earth. Without getting into all those details, many readers may find the story wordy and boring.
5 Clive Staples Lewis can be called the father of Christian Science Fiction and Fantasy.  Out of the Silent Planet, written in 1938, is the first of a trilogy of stories.  The others are Perelandra and That Hideous Strength.Lewis is the author of many novels including, The Lion, The Witch and the Wardrobe, and the other Narnia stories as well as non-fiction works including Mere Christianity, The Abolition of Man and A Grief Observed.  Lewis was a close friend of J. R. R. Tolkien, the author of The Lord of the Rings.  Both were professors at Oxford University and members of an informal literary group called the Inklings.The science part of the story is largely dated.  Lewis had little idea what space travel would be like.  His Mars is a much more Earth-like planet than we now know it to be.  The writing style is also somewhat dated, being told in narrative more than is done in modern literature, but it still works both as an adventure and allegory.  In all of his fiction works Lewis uses allegory to teach Christianity.  In the story Elwin Ransom, the protagonist, is kidnapped and transported to Mars by two acquaintances.  Ransom flees his captors upon arrival on the alien world.  After a couple days of travel he sees a Hross.  At first he thinks it is just a beast but he realizes it is speaking and slowly they begin communication.  Later he meets Oyarsa the ruler of the planet and, most likely, an archangel.  Oyarsa's messengers, regular angels, are called eldila.  Ransom also learns that Earth is the silent planet, cut off because it is ruled by the Bent One, a fallen angel.As he says near the end of this story, "What we need...is not so much a body of belief as a body of people familiarized with certain ideas."  His overriding purpose in Out of the Silent Planet is to familiarize a secular world with some of the principles of the Christian faith.As the story wraps up, the narrator laments the evil he sees spreading across the world and of his hope that the direction of history might be altered.  Of course Lewis knew that evil rules this world and only at the end would it be defeated.Recommendation: To understand Christian Science Fiction, start with Out of the Silent Planet.  It remains a five-star story.Kyle Pratt
5 Out of the Silent Planet begins with an unnamed man walking down a road during the evening, trying to find a place to stay. He meets a woman who asks him to find her son and bring him home, so the man, whom we soon find out is named Ransom, goes to the place where the woman's son is working and has to climb over the hedge because the gate is locked. So begins an unexpected adventure for Ransom, who is kidnapped by an old schoolfellow and a physicist who have built a space ship. Lewis really has a wonderful way of writing so that everything seems so real. In describing a sort of dream or hallucination, which really has no bearing on what is happening, he makes it feel real. And oh! the way he describes space (or Deep Heaven) is so breathtaking! Once he gets to Malacandra (the planet Mars), he escapes from the two men who kidnapped him. He meets Hrossa, one of the alien races (though they are so unlike aliens that it sounds strange to call them that, or to call them Martians because of the images they conjure up in the mind). The Hrossa are hnau, or rational creatures who have their own language. Ransom, being a philologist, is trhilled. I was confused by the two words Harandra and Handramit. One means highland, and the other means lowland, but I could never keep them straight. Other than that, though, I have no complaints. I love it, and just finished reading it for the third time. Read it, if you like space travel and adventure. I'd say it's better than H.G.Wells, at least because it has a Christian worldview, and also because of his elegant prose, some of which is almost poetry it is so beautiful.
3 As an otherwise devoted C.S.Lewis fan I have to say I found this book rather disappointing. It suffers from more recent knowledge of outer space matters and so is rather tame by modern standards. Not the author's fault as he was writing a good many years ago, nevertheless unlike e.g. the Narnia books this one fails to make the unbelievable believable.
4 To read the next two books. I wish Mars was really that awesome because I would totally visit it. End.
5 I like everything about this book. My favorite creatures are the pfifltriggi. They are funny and very strange and they love to make things. This book is sometimes somewhat hard to understand. A lot of weird spellings like pfifltriggi and Hyoi. It is a very clean book. I think the age should be 11 and up. I am twelve and it was very enjoyable.
4 This first book in Lewis's space trilogy is also the only one that is really sci-fi. Much of the book consists of descriptions of Malacandra, as it is known to those who live there--our name for it is Mars. Bigger things  are afoot, it is clear, but what won't be shown until 'Perelandra' and  especially 'That Hideous Strength.' The book has a chapter tacked on the  end, supplying some more details, supposedly written by Ransom to Lewis--a  clever touch; Lewis comes off as the colossal bungler, romanticising a  straightforward intellectual narrative, to Ransom's clear-headed scientific  observational approach--a spoof within a spoof, well and quietly done. The  scenes with Weston and the Oyarsa, Ransom translating, are priceless; Lewis  works in some sharp satirical comments against war and greed and pride.  Those scenes alone would make the book well worth reading. Add in the  strange and fascinating--other worlds and creatures and the memorable  descriptions of space itself--and you've got a book with double appeal.  True, the science is inaccurate--Mars has no 'hnau's and space is not  filled with light. Lewis is not to blame, however, especially for the  last--space _ought_ to be filled with light; no one knows why it isn't;  whole books (e.g., 'Why the Sky is Dark at Night') have been written on the  subject. Science aside, the book really has no flaws except that it doesn't  ever soar above its consistent level of quality.
3 Lewis's "Cosmic Trilogy", of which this is the first book, is perhaps his best fiction, which--regrettably--is a somewhat left-handed compliment.His major defect is that he can never quite succeed in suppressing his didactic Christianity.  The bulk of this book is, as it was intended to be, very H. G. Wells in tone, and in the main it is successfully so.  But, as always with Lewis, when it comes to wrapping things up, he just cannot resist the temptation to get out The Really Big Hammer Of Obviousness and beat his readers over the head with it repeatedly, just to be sure that even a drunken half-wit will Get It.All in all, this book is "a good read", albeit ultimately unsatisfying.
5 I love Lewis' space trilogy because it mixes science fiction and faith in a believable way.  The hero is not some muscle-bound lunk  but a middle aged professor of English Literature.  The story of life on Mars is fun and fantastic but it is their view of Earth and its inhabitants that, I think, make the story truly interesting.  A great read.  And you have two more books to go!
5 As a fan of 'hard SF', I was somewhat skeptical that I would like this work, even though C. S. Lewis is a great author. That being said, I was pleasantly surprised by this book. The hardcover version has excellent binding and is of good quality.The tale covers the abduction of one Elwin Ransom, who is taken to Mars as a human sacrifice and escapes. He meets up with the natives, learns their language and comes to understand some fundamental things about the universe and the human race.The author is a well-known Christian, and this tale builds on basic themes of Christianity.I found the book almost impossible to put down. There are so few traditional science fiction details that the book doesn't read like a work of that genre (no space battles, no details on hyperdrive or warp technology). Instead it is an adventure, that unfolds to show the main character (and the reader, who easily slips into the protagonist's shoes) hidden secrets of the universe, thereby unleashing a profound philosophical and moral transformation on him.Very thought provoking, and a must read for any Christian.
5 One of C.S. Lewis' lesser known series but definitely worth the read, I've enjoyed it very much and a diferent perspective.
4 This is a fascinating book and story that must be read all the way through book three in the series to be truly understood.  One needs to remember that it was written so long ago that the prose is, to me, cumbersome and Lewis goes on and on about things philosophizing at great length about the smallest issue. I felt I had to stick with it in spite of this because by the time I began to see this, I had already invested too much time in the reading of it.
5 It's been a long time since I last read this book.  I have enjoyed it every time, and find tremendous Spirituality in the concepts he describes.
3 I have tried multiple times to read this trilogy. This last month I decided to tough it out.C.S. Lewis is known for his Chronicles of Narnia books and other thick-headed writings. The Space Trilogy is not for wimps. It is written in the spirit of H.G. Wells and other ancient novels.The first book of the trilogy is titled, Out of the Silent Planet. Telling the story of a man named Ransom, we follow his adventures to the planet Mars and its inhabitants. (One of which you can see on the cover of the book)Ransom is kidnapped by two men and shoot off for the red planet in a special space vehicle. Once there, they encounter what they suspect to be vicious creatures and Ransom escapes before being offered as a sacrifice.The majority of this story focuses on the environment; many pages are devoted to the descriptions of the mountains and terrain.After Ransom meets up with other creatures from the planet, the dialog picks up the pace.It won't take many people to realize that Lewis is using the genre of sci-fi and these characters to tell a different story.
5 This book only took me about 3 evenings to finish. Probably the easiest of the space trilogy to read. I love C.S. Lewis because he communicates very complex and advanced social, philosophical and spiritual truths in a timeless way.
5 Wow. The first time I read 'OOTSP' I fell in love. Now I finally have a chance to own a copy! If it were a paperback, I'd expect the pages to look dog-eared after the 2nd use. Malacandra, here I come!
5 Besides The Chronicles of Narnia, C. S. Lewis' best-known fiction is his science-fiction works known as The Space Trilogy. Also known as The Cosmic Trilogy, perhaps because the third volume is notably "earthbound", these three books have been jokingly referred to as "Narnia in space".At the time that Lewis wrote these works, there was debate about whether there was life beyond the stars, about the limits of science, and about whether new discoveries would finally "throw off the shackles" of religion. Add into the mix were concerns about social Darwinism, eugenics, imperialism, and so on, and the intellectual debates were fascinating, but they obviously must have troubled Lewis because they all were going towards what he would have concluded was the wrong direction. So Lewis set out his pen, and began to put forth his view of what life may be like beyond the cosmos if aliens existed. Along the way, he dealt with issues such as the importance of life, even if the person is not as intelligent, or doesn't seem to be as worth-while to society, as well as the idea that the ends decidedly do not justify the means in all circumstances. Indeed, Lewis' portrayal of the evil plots by Weston and Devine seem to be a very subtle jab against Hitler in Germany and Stalin in Russia who (especially Hitler) still seemed to have a puzzling popularity in the West.The story starts out with a professor of philology (who seems to have been based upon Lewis' good friend, The Lord of the Rings author, J. R. R. Tolkien, himself a scholar of languages) who is on his break from school, and is using the time away from researching, teaching and grading papers to go on a "walking tour" of the English countryside.Seeking shelter for the night in a small village, the professor, Dr. Elwin Ransom, comes across a hysterical woman distraught over the fact that her mentally handicapped son hasn't come home from work on time that day, like he always does. Though he really just wants to find a place to spend the night as soon as possible, Ransom agrees to search for and find her boy, and he does so. He comes upon a scene of the young man, scared out of his mind, being roughed up by two other men. Upon rescuing the boy, Ransom finds himself soon kidnapped by the villains, Professor Weston and Devine, Who quickly drug him into unconsciousness.He is stunned upon waking to find himself on a spaceship journeying to a strange planet his captors call "Malacandra". He soon learns that they intend to give him as a human sacrifice to the natives of the planet, called "sorns". As soon as the ship lands, Ransom takes advantage of a distraction to run off and evade his (now former) captors. As he makes his way across the landscape of the strange, new world, he learns that all is not as it appears. His eventual fate is not nearly as bad as Weston and Devine thought it would be, but the secrets he learns about his own world will change him forever.This work is truly a masterpiece. Lewis opined on the philosophical and moral debates of his time by use of the story-telling device of science-fiction. Arguably, the credit that folks give to Gene Roddenberry for ushering in some new era of storytelling by using his Star Trek stories to give commentary on current events issues should go instead to C. S. Lewis. Lewis was able to effectively use his typically elegant and witty prose to the extent that his commentary did not interfere at all with the tale he wanted to tell. In most authors, the "lessons" or "Aesops" come across in a blunt, clumsy, heavy-handed manner. Not so in this work.I really just want to deal with a two main criticisms that the book and series as a whole have gotten. First, Lewis did not have some hair-brained notion of Mars landscape. He knew, because it was already known to some extent, that Mars was not like this. It is a STORY. He was making up a fiction, just like DC Comics does with the Martian Manhunter, or many others have. The second major criticism is that Lewis hated science. No, he didn't. Ransom was a philologist, which is one of the "harder" areas of the "social sciences", the sorns are basically scholars and scientists, and the atheist good guy among the group in the final installment of the trilogy, is an intelligent, scientific man. No, what Lewis hated and criticized was science unrestrained by notions of basic morality and decency. That really is different from "hating science".The Cosmic Trilogy, beginning with Out of the Silent Planet, is still to this day unique among science-fiction tales, because the aliens that are superior to humans are not so due to atheism, but due to a higher moral state and a belief in God, the God that is known as the Judeo-Christian God here on earth.This book and the rest of the trilogy, like the Narnia books, is enjoyable as a fun story, but for those who wish to "dig deeper", the commentary Lewis put forth in the books was pertinent to the time in which it was written, and is still relevant today.Highly Recommended.
5 I 've enjoyed reading this series. This specific book does start well with a great conclusion. It tells a complete story that satisfies. It is an easy read without being juvenile, so would be enjoyed by both young and older adults. I highly recommend this book.
5 Hey, C.S. Lewis actually wrote other stuff!  Fancy that!  For those who only know him as the author of those books with the big cat, the kids and the closet entrance into a fantasy world, he's got lots of other stuff out there.  This is just one of those other works, I think the really only important SF work he ever did (it's actually the first part of a trilogy, but I think those are less SF).  It's great fun, really, definitely reminds me of H.G. Wells in its calm tone when describing the utterly fantastic and impossible, except that Lewis has a slightly better gift of description to make up for his only slightly lack of imagination (but only when comparing him to Wells, mind you).  Basically Dr Ransome winds up being kidnapped (really through no faunt of his own) by two others and winds up on a planet that turns out to be Mars.  Ransome winds up meeting the local people and learning their ways while trying to survive and his sure scientific tone in the face of something hardly comprehendable is the bedrock on which this novel rests, no matter how afraid or excited he is, he stills displays an unwavering confidence in detail and exacting observations.  Which makes the narration compelling in its subtle beauty of detail.  The folks of Mars are interesting, a far cry from the warlike being of Wells' famed novel, and there's probably some overt commentary that I'm missing (Lewis was a devout follower of Christian beliefs and I think those color the other two books more than this one) but what the heck, it's fun and entertaining and that's what count.  People tell me they don't like to read Lewis because he tends to be &quot;preachy&quot; and talks down, but there's nothing like that here.  The trial scene towards the end with all the Martians is absolutely fascinating and complicated at the same time.  The only overt Christian thing I found was the reference to Earth as the &quot;silent&quot; planet (ie. fallen), something which I think is developed more in the two books.  But for me this has all the classic attributes of good old fashioned SF, a calm reasonable tone, the narrator's attention to science and detail, a general disregard for science if it gets in the way of a good story (we know Mars doesn't have people and it'd take a heck of a lot longer than twenty eight days to get there, but who cares . . . I'm not basing a scientific paper on it) and unreserved creativity.  A fast read that'll probably stay with you, it's definitely worth a shot.
3 Had a few friends recommend Lewis' sci-fi series, so when this book came along at a low price, I grabbed it! It does feel like you're reading non-fiction instead of fiction at times.
5 C. S. Lewis's series for adults (sadly, there are only three of these, not seven like THE CHRONICLES OF NARNIA) combine the several elements that make of this phenomenal writer: scholar and literary critic, story teller, Christian, myth-maker, brilliant debater.  Whether he is giving us a (what appears on the surface) an imaginative excursion into Mars, a psychological study of temptation, or a satiric novel which covers so intellectual, scholarly, and religious ground that it is about to burst at the seams, Lewis always maintains a very high level of deft analysis of our humanity and gives us myth so we may learn and benefit from it spiritually.  The first will be the best for those readers looking for traditional SF, but make no mistake: Lewis took that genre and revolutionized it, incorporating theology into SF, which up to that time had not been done to such a successful degree, and as a result OSP is a very influential book in that regard.. His story is fundamentally Christian, yet most of its original reviews did not notice this fact.  As for PERELANDRA, Lewis never gives us a better picture of the psychology of temptation and how we are all responsibilities for our actions.  Only in THE SCREWTAPE LETTERS and TILL WE HAVE FACES does Lewis demonstrate such acute awareness about the foibles of man and how easy we can fall away or hide ourselves from God.  THAT HIDEOUS STRENGTH incorporates social and political commentary, Arthurian mythology, religious elements, scholary elements, and an entire host of intellectual concerns that Lewis wanted to address.Conclusion?  This series shows us the brilliance of a mind and the depths Christian fiction can obtain.  For those Christians who wish the Christian fiction  market could be more substantial and have such wide respect as secular literature, this series is a godsend, proving conclusively that Christianity can be approached from a logical, rational mind set and still be valid philosophically, exhibiting a most appropriate sense of wonder at God's majesty.  Lewis was truly one of Christianity's greatest writers.
2 This is the first C.S.Lewis I've read, and I have to say it is a bit of a disappointment.  I didn't know what to expect, but I didn't expect what I got, a rather typical and traditional SF story about a guy who unexpectedly goes on a trip through space to another planet, where he meets some wise aliens.  (Their wisdom consists of a sort of Christian Stoicism, an eager submission to the will of God, which is contrasted with the overweening ambition of humanity.)  Lewis's writing is a little flat, and while he seems to be trying to inspire wonder in the reader at the beauty of his alien planet, he just as often inspired boredom in this reader.  I have to admit, I prefer stories in which the alien planet is the scene of heroic battles or grim terror, as in Edgar Rice Burroughs's Mars books or Jack Williamson's The Legion of Space; Lewis is aiming higher than they did, but whereas they hit their targets squarely, he misses his mark.I read the 2003 Scribners trade paperback, which is a disaster.  Many paragraphs appear to be lacking their proper indentation, and it looks like in the process of Americanizing the punctuation many apostrophes were turned into quotation marks.  Whoever managed the preparation of the text should be ashamed.
5 These negative reviewers seemed hell-bent on getting a very character based, suspense or action story like dean koontz would write.  the deeper purpose of this book is to shine a spotlight on what is typical human nature and what is God's nature (and how we each are alone in discovering these).  this book explores how we approach foreign people and either cooperate, kill, exploit, or attempt to enslave them.  it also explores God's ways of protecting the humble and turning against the proud and how a whole nation may suffer for the sins of it's leaders.  it's sad that modern readers can be unwilling to enjoy the more subtle themes of some excellent classics.  for those who didn't get what i got, read "heart of darkness" and then revisit this book.  both reveal humanity outside the pretenses of ordinary society.
2 Sorry, but this trilogy is not for me. I have two daughters, one loved them, the other, like me, did not. I am half way through the second book and am determined to finish them, but I much prefer picking up any other book than these to read. There seems to be no plot, only lots of description.
3 C.S. Lewis, best known for his fantasy series about Narnia - as well as his religious writings - tried his hand with science fiction with a trilogy of which Out of the Silent Planet is the first book.Unfortunately, this is an imperfect effort, hardly on the same level as Narnia.  Somewhat a combination of Edgar Rice Burroughs and H.G. Wells, this story follows the adventures of Ransom, a professor who is kidnaped and taken to another planet where he encounters various intelligent alien races and tries to stay ahead of his human adversaries.This is not all as interesting as it sounds, primarily because Ransom is not a very interesting character and his main role seems to be as an observer.  He reacts more than he acts.  On the other hand, the aliens are somewhat intriguing, even if they are not as compelling as some other fictional aliens.I don't want to come off too harsh; even if the book is a bit stiff, it isn't bad.  Also, it is only the first part of a trilogy, so this is not the complete story.  For Lewis fans, this might be a worthwhile book, as long as they don't expect Narnia; for science fiction fans, however, this will probably come a bit short.
5 It helps a bit to remember that this C.S.Lewis sci-fi/fantasy adventure was first published in 1943. Even though our knowledge of Mars (Malacandra) is slightly more defined now than in Lewis' day, his wonderfully creative imagination can still delight and captivate a modern day reader.The novel begins with the carefree walking tour of the British countryside by a vacationing Cambridge college philologist named Ransom. By chance, Ransom runs into two crazed and evil (bent) colleagues who abduct him and drag him off via spaceship to the planet Malacandra. Fearing for his life, he escapes his captors and journeys through the waters, forests, canals, and strange countryside of the new world. Overwhelmed by the horrifying feeling of being alone in a place he knows absolutely nothing about, he encounters extraordinary obstacles, situations, and inhabitants throughout his amazing journey.The book is a wonderful story of one man's amazing adventures in a new land; and, while learning about the strange and diverse customs of it's inhabitants, he delves into his own mind and examines thoughts of love, hatred, greed, superior beings, God, and the meaning of life itself.It's a very captivating and refreshing book.
5 Lewis' trilogy is in the upper echelons of both science fiction and Christian theology. His use of prose and description to create this world within our own world is hard pressed to find an equal. I try to pick one of the books that is my favorite but what it comes down to is whichever one I am reading at the time is my favorite.
3 I have to say I really like the title and idea behind Earth's name. This was my first introduction to a novel of Lewis, and it was a real page turner. But this book reminds me of Ayn Rand's novels, in the sense that the story is sometimes good filler between speeches where the authors get down to business. In Silent Planet this occurs mainly in the grand finale. This is, though, convenient for me now since I read this book for history of science research.I feel bad calling the in-between filler, because I don't think it entirely was. There was good integration and demonstration of other points in the novel. At first glance, the softest part in the novel is the coexistence of the three intelligent species. It is rather... naiive? At least too idealistic. Are these species the ideal Christians, who follow commandments and the way of grace perfectly because of total faith and belief in God? This picture isn't argued by Lewis.
5 I love anything by C. S. Lewis. His space trilogy and Narnia stories are both fun to read and enlightening.
4 Cambridge philologist Elwin Ransom, hiking the hills between terms, interrupts two men in a secluded country house as they try to force a terrified young handyman aboard what turns out to be a spaceship. An unmarried don, who won't be missed until he doesn't show up at his college, looks like a much better subject for what Dr. Weston (an eminent physicist) and Mr. Devine have on their minds. After all, the half-witted handyman's mother will be looking for him. That is how Ransom comes to the house in the first place, to do the worried old woman a favor by bringing her son home long after his work day should have ended.Ransom accepts refreshments from Weston, whom he knew during their student days. He wakes up on his way to a world whose inhabitants call it Malacandra - the planet we know as Mars.This science fantasy is fast-paced, witty, and thoroughly engaging. Although its Christian allegory is obvious, it doesn't come across as overstated. I quite simply loved it.
5 Out of the Silent Planet is a timeless work of art that has inspired millions. Lewis has intertwined a truly surreal adventure with a deep and meaningful message of peace and tranquillity. His writing is chock full of imagery and beauty. The words paint a picture in the mind so precise that Dali himself would have only wished he could have matched the greatness of this book with his palette.Dr. Ransom, the protagonist, is a very believable character. He and two other men, named Weston and Devine, crash land on the red planet with completely different intentions. Dr. Ransom, having been kidnapped, escapes his captors and embarks on a memorable adventure. Ransom uses very simple logic to learn the language of the native species and he interacts with the four races of Malacandria differently, creating a very interesting and awe-inspiring atmosphere.Lewis, as in his other series The Chronicles of Narnia, uses biblical stories and principals to create and allegory that keeps the reader guessing. The race of Eldil (an energy or spirit type being) offer wisdom and encourage Ransom during his stay on the planet while essentially balking Weston and Devine's petty quest to ransack the resources of the planet. The moral Lewis conveys is a simple, yet important one.Out of the Silent Planet is a diamond in the rough. It was written well before the recent conquest of space and the immanence of technology, so the imaginative view of what Lewis thought Mars might be like is very interesting. I am looking forward to reading the rest of the series, which I've read, only gets better.
5 This is the second time I have read the C.S. Lewis Space Trilogy. I have been meaning to read the trilogy again but the first set of books were lost during a move and I had not replaced them until now. Now that I am retired, I have the time for reading and thoroughly enjoyed the books for the second time.
5 Once again, I have fallen in love with a book by C.S. Lewis. &quot;Out of  the Silent Planet&quot; takes its place alongside &quot;The Lion, the  Witch, and the Wardrobe&quot;, &quot;Till We Have Faces&quot;, &quot;The  Voyage of the Dawn Treader&quot;, &quot;Mere Christianity&quot;, &quot;The  Great Divorce&quot;, &quot;The Screwtape Letters&quot;, and &quot;The Last  Battle&quot; as books Lewis has written that I believe everyone should  read.I am astounded by Lewis' creative imagination. The planet of  Malacandra is a profound idea expressed beautifully. I do not wish to go  into too many details because discovery is the real joy in reading this  book. However, I must say that Ransom is one of Lewis' most complex and  compelling (if somewhat ambiguous) protagonists; and therefore...one of my  favorites.I thoroughly enjoyed Out of the Silent Planet. I sincerely  encourage you to acquire this book and read it. It is an amazing adventure.
4 This novel is not as good as the Chronicles of Narnia- but few are.  The story itself is simple, yet like most of C.S. Lewis' work, it is allegorical.  For most of the book, he maintains the perfect balance between traditional storytelling and telling his message.  The subjects he deals with just below the surface of the plotline are the true gems here.Questions arise: what value judgement are we making when we believe the human race is the only one that should be entitled to the entire universe?  Lewis, like Tolkien, was influenced greatly by WWII and it shows here.  He questions the absurdity of armed conflict and analyzes it down to the simplest of levels, to the way a creature on Mars would view it.  Although some may find the pacing a bit slow, I found it like savoring a fine wine- no reason to rush, and every reason to try to discern the subtleties.
5 I am very pleased with my order.  It was shipped quickly and it is in very good condition.  I plan to order Book Two and Three.
4 I enjoy everything C.S. Lewis has written.This is a little different than I am used to, however, can't wait to read the next two.I would recommend this to all of my family and friends.
4 C.S. Lewis is a name that many children and their parents know by heart.  In school and long after, they fell in love with his much beloved 7-volume "Chronicles of Narnia".  In addition to that seminal work, Lewis was also noted for his profound takes on Christianity, whether he wrote purely theological books or weaved Christian themes into his fictional novels.  One of his more celebrated efforts is his "Space Trilogy" consisting of the three books: "Out of the Silent Planet", "Perelandra", and "That Hideous Strength".  Having yet to read "That Hideous Strength", I am unable to comment on the overall arc of this trilogy.  Though, I can make assessments out of what I have read.The first book in this series is "Out of the Silent Planet"; a short 160 pages, but by no means a quick read.  It focuses on the travels of this series' hero, the estimable Dr. Ransom as he is kidnapped by two devious scientists, Doctors Weston and Devine, and flown out of Earth (the aforementioned `silent planet') and whisked to the alien planet of Malacandra (the native name for world we know as Mars).  Initially fearful of being sacrificed by Weston and Devine to an indigenous Malacandran species known as sorns, Dr. Ransom escapes once they land upon the world and begins and journey where he meets many of the indigenous species, among them, the subservient hrossa and even the sorns he so feared.  In his journeys, Ransom is struck with awe and wonder at the magical visual world he sees, from the lush, fertile valleys that are only visible from the planet surface to the more desolate, but no less intriguing, mountaintops where few of the indigenous lifeforms still reside.  His travels provide a strong allegorical reference to biblical themes and Christian doctrine.  Malacandra provides a glimpse of what Earth could have been if it had never suffered the fall of Original Sin.  All Malacandran life is governed by a benevolent being known as the Oyarsa, who is subservient only to the being referred to as Maleldil (though easy to view as God, himself).  The Oyarsa of Malacandra laments no longer hearing from the Oyarsa of Thulucandra ("The Silent Planet" aka Earth), who is referred to as the one who is `bent' or "gone bad".  Ransom is to ponder the significance of what he has observed and consider how to use that knowledge.  As Malacandra is further from the Sun than the Earth, its indigenous life has been around much longer and can serve as an example its wayward sibling.Small print-type, complex sentence structure, and long paragraphs all combine to make reading "Out of the Silent Planet" (and the rest of the "Space Trilogy") a challenge to those who are not used to Lewis' writings.  Even at 160 pages, multiple readings are recommended in order to absorb all of the themes presented in this book, but don't think that reading "Out of the Silent Planet" isn't a worthwhile endeavor.  Much can be gleaned from its pages and more can be pondered after reading it.
5 C.S. Lewis's _Out of the Silent Planet_ (1938) is the first volume of his "Space Trilogy" or "Cosmic Trilogy". The two later volumes in the trilogy are _Perilandra_ (1943) and _That Hideous Strength_ (1945). In a dedicatory note to the novel, Lewis says: "The author would be sorry if any reader supposed he was too stupid to have enjoyed Mr. H.G. Wells's fantasies or too ungrateful to acknowledge his debt to them" (6).What is this debt to which Lewis refers? Why, for pioneering many of the conventions of the planetary romance in novels like _The First Men in the Moon_ (1901). Lewis would have also have been familiar with Olaf Stapledon's planetary romances like _Last and First Men_ (1930). He may even have known about such lesser novels as George Griffith's _Honeymoon in Space_ (1901). He was certainly familiar with David Lindsay's visionary _A Voyage to Arcturus_ (1920), which he cited as an influence on his writing.Lewis is taking the basic Wellsian planetary romance conventions-- he has his hero kidnapped by a pair of villainous scientist types and bundled aboard a spherical spaceship bound for Mars. But instead of using these conventions to tell a scientific adventure, or even to pose a problem in scientific ethics, Lewis spins a religious allegory-- and gets away with it.Science was never Lewis's strong suit, and it is not hard to spot a number of bloopers on the spaceship journey to Malacandra (or Mars):"'Don't talk,' [Weston] said. 'We have discussed all that is necessary. The ship does not carry oxygen enough for any unnecessary exertion; not even for talking'" (29)After which, of course, there is plenty of talking. A bit later, it never seems to occur to the characters that they can rotate the ship:There was an endless night on one side of the ship and an endless day on the other: each was marvelous and he moved from the one side to the other at his will, delighted. In the nights, which he could create by turning the handle of a door, he lay for hours in contemplation of the skylight. The Earth's disk was nowhere to be seen; the stars, thick as daisies on an uncut lawn reigned perpetually with no cloud, no moon, no sunrise to dispute their sway. There were planets of unbelievable majesty, and constellations undreamed of: there were celestial saphires, rubies, emeralds, and pin-pricks of burning gold. (31)And here is Lewis on the so-called blackness of Space:He had not known how much it affected him till now-- now that the very name 'Space' seemed a blasphemous libel for this empyrean ocean of radiance in which they swam He could not call it 'dead'; he felt life pouring into him from it every moment. How indeed should it be otherwise, since out of this ocean the worlds and all their life had come. (32)It should be apparent to even the most naive reader that Lewis's scientific deficiencies are more than offset by his poetic exuberance and charm. His voyage is in fact great fun.When the voyagers land on Malacandra, Lewis does a reversal of Wells. In _The War of the Worlds_  (1888), Mars is essentially a bellicose, warlike planet with Earth as its victim. But in Lewis's novel, _Earth_ is the ugly, soulless world-- the "silent planet of the title. _Mars_ is the beautiful utopia:[Ransom] tried hard, in such stolen glances as the work allowed him, to make out something of the farther shore. A mass of something purple, so huge that he took it for a heather-covered mountain, was his first impression: on the other side, beyond the larger water, there was something of the same kind. But there, he could see over the top of it. Beyond were strange upright shapes of whitish green: too jagged and irregular for buildings, too thin and steep for mountains. Beyond and above these again was the rose colored cloud-like mass. It might really be a cloud, but it was very solid-looking and did not seem to have moved since he first set eyes on it from the manhole. It looked like the top of a gigantic red cauliflower-- or like a huge bowl of soapsuds-- and it was exquisitly beautiful in tint and shape. (43)Weston and Devine, intent on their own villainous plans, are blind to this beauty.
5 Many of Lewis' works are heavily Christian, but his Space Trilogy is only subtly so, and the arguments and theological constructs are applicable far beyond Christianity. The writing in these three books is not Narnia-like in its intended audience, nor in its depth. It is difficult reading at times but well worth it. Out of the Silent Planet is really a primer for the two later books and isn't nearly as deep, consisting more of plot and action than meaning. It sets up nicely the amazing Perelandra, full of symbolism and philosophical meanderings. The final book, That Hideous Strength, combines an odd cast of characters and strange plot twists, almost in Bradbury style, but somehow manages to fit together and arrive at a climax that is somewhat reminiscent of the great battle of The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe, but with a more sophisticated and less obvious symbolic overtone. I heartily recommend these three books to any C.S. Lewis fan, as well as to people that simply enjoy novel works of theology and philosophy.
5 Elwin Ransom, an Oxford don and an ardent philologist, is enjoying a solitary cross country ramble on his vacation when he encounters Professor Devine, a long-time acquaintance from his student days at Oxford, and Weston, a somewhat distracted and grumpy, reclusive individual. Weston is, in fact, a physicist who has secretly built a space craft in which he and Devine plan to return to Mars (Malacandra, in the native Martian populace's language) with nefarious ideas of plunder and planetary domination. As part of their plan, they drug and kidnap Ransom to take him along as a sacrificial peace offering to the native population.On the face of it, a beautifully written Out of the Silent Planet has a simple classic sci-fi plot and can certainly be enjoyed at this level. But virtually every reader will recognize that Lewis' work probes far more deeply than that. His strongly held Christian beliefs, never far from that surface plot, are apparent in his criticism of human prejudice and greed. It is also clear that he holds extremely strong views against notions of eugenics and the then universally held belief in the natural supremacy of western white civilization as compared, for example, to aboriginal populations elsewhere in the world. Even though his allegorical tale goes so far as to include a version of angels and an archangel, the story never becomes preachy, odious or whiny.Astute long-time readers of science fiction are always on the alert for errors of scientific fact. So Lewis may be mildly criticized for making a fundamental error in how gravity would work aboard a space craft but this certainly detracts in no way from the quality of his story. To the contrary, I thought he earned top marks and high praise for crafting, for example, a startlingly accurate description of the appearance of the sky in the transition zone from atmosphere to space at extremely high altitudes (at a time, of course, when space travel was at best a twinkle in scientists' eyes). I also noted a single quite astonishing comment that seemed to predict Einstein's work on cosmology, travel at light speed and relativity ... "But if the movement were faster still ... in the end, the moving thing would be in all places at once." His brief exposition on linguistics and the possibility of a universal syntactical structure of languages was also fascinating without being distracting or pedantic.For fans of soft sci-fi, Out of the Silent Planet will provide a smorgasbord of delights - alien characters and personalities, philosophy, ethics, survival in a potentially hostile environment and descriptions of alien flora and fauna that are near poetic in their beauty and majesty. I'm looking forward to reading the next novels in his masterwork trilogy, "Voyage to Venus" and "That Hideous Strength".Highly recommended.Paul Weiss
4 Now that we've been there and done that, space exploration-wise, one would expect this science fiction to be outdated.  One would be wrong.  This is just the first part of one man's arduous trek through the mysteries of our Solar System and Man's Fallen State.  Follow the language expert Ransom as he meets new peoples, learns new languages, and confronts our familiar old Enemy.
5 When I read this for the first time many years ago, I was completely surprised.  So I will not be a &#34;spoiler&#34;. The underlying moral is clear.
5 This is one of C. S. Lewis's science fiction trilogy composed of Out of the Silent Plant, Perelandra and That Hideous Strength.  While they do not have to be read in that order, I suggest it for your greater appreciation.  H. G. Wells, Arthur Clarke and their like have swayed us to the belief that extraterrestrials who are more intelligent than we are also evil and might wish us ill.  Lewis calls our attention to the fact that we are the only race we know to be fallen and the reverse might be the truth: that the aliens  may be the moral ones and we the criminals.  Some of this insight inspired the movie 2001 even though it was based on a very pessimistic story by Clarke.  Lewis puts his considerable imagination and his outstanding writing ability at the service of a theological, philosophical and humanistic view of the cosmos rare if not unique in the field of sci-fi, and for those reasons these books deserve more than one visit.  My most recent -- possibly my fourth - reading was as enjoyable as my first.  These books are easily understood by teens and can still give mature thinkers much food for thought.  This first volume introduces the philologist Dr. Ransom, and describes his kidnapping to another world, his encounter with other species, his learning the language (Lewis has as much fun with language as J.R.R. Tolkien), and his coming to see reality through new eyes.  While science has made some of his descriptions a tad dated, his insight survives the passage of years well.  The final additions come as a bit anticlimactic; one has the sense he is answering the objections of some readers and throwing in a few details he ought to have included in the first place.  But if you have bought into his vision they can entertain somewhat like the out-takes shown during the final credits of a film or TV show.
5 C. S. Lewis has taken space travel and Christian theology and woven them into a startlingly believable story, brilliantly told in classic C. S. Lewis prose.  There is something on every level - a good adventure tale, a deep look into personality, and a searing expos&eacute; of human sin and its devastating consequences.  Those unfamiliar with the basics of theology will not catch the deepest implications, and will therefore miss the subtle beauty and meaning of this incredible little book.
4 After getting my fill of Lord of the Rings, I was looking for something new to read.  I came across this book and decided to give it a shot.  I knew that Lewis and Tolkien were contemporaries so I expected a work of quality.  I was not disappointed although there is definitely a difference in writing style between this book and LOTR.  First of all, Lewis has far fewer characters in his tale - I would say that there are only 6 that are given significant detail.  This is helpful because you have to focus much more on the scenery and alien beings.As for the story, you get to take a journey of self discovery with Dr. Elwin Ransom - the central figure of Lewis' Space Trilogy.  It is difficult to say too much about the story without giving away the plot - so I won't.  Let me simply say that the story is thought provoking from a moral and religious point of view, and there is plenty of adventure.  If this sounds like the kind of book you like, give Out of the Silent Planet a try.
2 Despite respectful references to the legacy of H. G. Wells--acclaimed inventor of the modern sci fi genre--C.S.Lewis has chosen to forge his own stylistic trail through the perils of alien prose.  This first book in a projected trilogy is set onMalacandra; it's no secret that the destination is actually Mars. The story relates the amazing experiences (but few actual&quot;adventures&quot;) of Dr. Ransom. Kidnapped by two soundrel scientists, the mild-mannered fellow awakens on board a space vehicle, en route to another planet, where he will presumably be handed over to alien brutes as a human sacrifice.  The tale progresses slowly and could just have easily been written in the first person, since all activity centers around the unlikely progagonist--a university professor of Philology (the study of Words).Expect many references to the British university system and countless chapters devoid of dialogue; narrative reigns supreme in this CSL novel, with extensive monologues or transliterations.  The author's deep concentration on mythologyand man's role in the universe will invite readers into deeper realms of thought. The human psyche, as well as human physiognomy, mentality, morals and motivation form the object of intense scrutiny by way of comparison with the three major species on the planet.  Dropping veiled hints about the danger of unbridled anthropomorphism, CSL forces his hero (and readers) to reexamine traditional views of man's inalienable right to propagate his seed throughout the galaxy. He questions our immediate reaction of horror at any and all alien life forms.  Must they necessarily prove grotesque and brutal?Thinly-disguised references to the Judao-Chistian heritage may lead meditative readers to ponder space as some sort of Heaven, withthe creative blending of mythology and pre history; should manaccept a universal protector god-family as both rational and compassionate?  Will Professor Ransom be held hostage for the human race or will he offer himself as living ransom in the future?  There seems to be much &quot;in a name&quot; and exhaustive linguistic details in this Sci Fi novel. A thought-provoking book which was intended to entertain by more than mere action and dialogue, OUT OF THE SILENT PLANET drags on long beyond the exciting denouement. Definitley not in the Wells or Verne tradition, this read is sci fi for the philosopher, who may well wonder which of the two worlds deserves to be called &quot;Silent.&quot;
5 This book is just great.  Our hero is transported to Mars and finds it inhabited by beings in touch with the entire universe except for one blind spot-Earth.  The explaination for this is slowly revealed as the worlds come closer and closer to a crisis and the story is just wonderful.  The 2nd book in the series, "Perelandra," is quite simply one of the best theological arguments I've ever read presented as an ongoing debate between the characters in the story.  I loved this book and have read it several times over the years.  The last book in the trilogy is "That Hideous Strength" and is one of the most downright frightening stories I've ever read, heard, or watched, possibly because much of the story often seems as if it may really be happening with the media in the United States in particular. (And the international media for that matter)  I love the whole trilogy and have probably bought all of the books several times in my life because I loan them out and never get them them back!  They need to put these out in Kindle versions so I'll always have copies of them.
5 I love Lewis.  I love his way of explaining Christianity, of how he came to Christ in his 30s, and of how he reveals the Christian faith in his Narnia books.  I was aware that he'd also written a "Space Trilogy", but had never picked them up, as I have been more interested in his apologetics.  I ran across "Out of the Silent Planet" at the library while looking for an entirely different book, and was so intrigued by the cover art (a man and a beaver-like creature in a canoe) I had to give it a try.  The story revolves around a man named Ransom taken hostage to Malacandra, later revealed as Mars, and the races of beings he finds there.  The story was interesting, touching, and (for me) contained passaged that really made me think about mankind and our 'place' in the universe.  It was a great read, and I plan to read books 2 and 3 very, very soon!
2 CS Lewis wrote what I consider the best Christian apologetics of the 20th century, books I've read and in some cases re-read and re-read and re-read, books I turn to regularly.  Of course he also wrote the much-loved Narnia stories, which I've also read, both for my own enjoyment and, aloud, to my children.  I've read Til We Have Faces (which I liked fairly well) and Surprised by Joy (which I liked quite a lot).  I've read a few of the biographies and one critical study of the Narnia books.  So you could say I'm a fan.  And, yes, I'm on pretty much the same page as Lewis, theologically.  That said, I found this book almost unreadable.  There is no depth to any of the characters, no logic to the plot, no zest to the prose, and nothing that made me want to read on.  I was on a long plane ride though so I did press on. I finished the book but it was a chore and not a pleasure. In fact, I actually rewarded myself for my persistence with brief intervals of the in-flight magazine.  Think about that.  It's hard to come up with a more damning condemnation of a book than to say I preferred reading reviews of restaurants in Nashville, a city I haven't visited in thirty years and have no plans on visiting in the near future. So why two stars instead of just one?  I guess just the aforementioned fondness for Lewis.
4 Out Of The Silent Planet is a science fiction space adventure written in 1938, the first book of three by Lewis collectively known as the Space Trilogy. It's about a philologist (or linquist) named Ransom traveling on foot when he coincidentally meets up with an old school mate, Devine, and a brilliant scientist, Weston, who shanghai him aboard their spaceship on a long journey to another planet in the Solar system. You'll guess which planet, if you know a bit of astronomy, before it's revealed. On that planet Weston and Devine are about to hand Ransom over to some natives (aliens called Sorn) when he escapes and makes his way from the hostile plateau climate they landed in to a more habitable zone in a deep canyon where he lives among another race of aliens, the Hrossa. He discovers there is a third intelligent race on the planet and that all three groups are ruled by a spiritual leader known as Oarsa. As he seeks out this Oarsa, his captors are closing in on him.Throughout the narrative there is much preaching about the immorality of the prospect of the human race arrogantly conquering the universe, as though the author were answering such a proposition by some other author or scientist like, perhaps, H.G. Wells.Since it was written in the 1930s I'll compare "Out of The Silent Planet" to other sci-fi novels of that time. First, some might call it science fantasy or some other branch of literature; I won't argue with that, but can compare it only to what I've read, and for that period it's mainly sci-fi by such authors as Edward E. Smith, Jack Williamson, and A. Merritt. To give you an idea where I'm coming from, my favorite author is Robert Heinlein, who wrote "Starship Troopers" and "Space Cadet."Smith's "The Skylark Of Space" was probably the first novel that could be called a precursor to such modern space adventures as "Star Trek" and "Star Wars," in which the heros and villain travel in interstellar spacecraft. It was written in 1911 but first published in the late 1920s. "Out Of The Silent Planet" is scientifically less believable, especially in the description of the spaceship, and less logical, but somewhat more stylish and readable than Smith's work, which, while groundbreaking, imaginative, and scientifically thought out, suffered from technically perfect but colorless style. On the other hand, Out Of The Silent Planet is not as stylish, atmoshperic, or entertaining to read as A. Merritt's novels such as "The Moon Pool," though they are even less accurate or logical. Incidentally, Jack Williamson's "Legion Of Space" novels, written a bit later than Smith's first work, are even more directly akin to "Star Wars" and "Star Trek" (Jack Williamson is, by the way, still living and still writing science fiction as of this posting). Though the first Buck Rogers novel, "Armageddon 2419 A.D." appeared in the same issue of Amazing Stories as "The Skylark of Space," it wasn't about space travel at all, just a Rip Van Winkle story.Personally, of these I've mentioned, I prefer Smith's novels, which evoke a strong feeling of wonder and awe just from the serious treatment of the subject matter, in spite of what some may call dry style. For a little scary, atmoshperic escapism, A. Merritt's best. "Out Of The Silent Planet" is halfway between in two different ways, and I didn't find the mix very effective. Some passages seemed drawn out and pointless, the framing devices dated, and the device of the hero being kidnapped to end up in space a bit gimmicky by todays standards, even trite when it was written, but on the whole it was worth reading just to satisfy my curiousity; I don't feel the need to read the sequels now.
4 Fascinating and most unusual story. Very well written. Upon arrival on a distant planet, our hero discovers that the sinful nature of mankind is not replicated on Mars. The descriptions of the creatures on this place are very good.
5 It took me 4 months to read all three books. It astonishes me on how much the average reader has lowered their expectations of writers. CS Lewis challenges the reader to think while they are reading; instead of going into a mind-numbing guide through a series of words prepared by writers who have little to no respect for the minds of their readers.Every word written by CS Lewis, in his space trilogy, demand the reader to be their own thinker. In the second book, I was somewhat disgusted by the fact that Lewis derides the word "equality" in marriage. But I continued, simply because I wanted to know how the story ended.In the 3rd book, CS Lewis went further and explained that there is no equality in marriage: No tit-for-tat, it is about sharing and giving your all to the person you have married... Not just women or men. He defined avarice as the reason our world is failing. "Nature is something dead--a machine to be worked, and taken to bits if it won't work the way he pleases." CS Lewis must have known a few oil tycoons in his day... But this can also be applied to any marriage. What is natural, is that we care for each other; and treat each other with respect. We fight this because of our self-centeredness. Our wants are placed above what is natural.His spirits, in all the books, define the whispers in our ears; which in turn, define our actions.These books are not for the weak in will; the weak in spirit; or the closed minds. And I must confess that mind slightly closed in the second book, toward the end. Perservere and you will be rewarded at the conclusion of the third book. Even if you are not Christian, I do recommend taking his advice to heart; and cleave unto each other with joy and caring!
5 I bought this to read on a long overnight airplane ride, along with The Abolition of Man, also by Lewis. On long trips, I tend to lose focus and have to replace the heavy reading with something lighter as the trip wears on. This book quickly won out. It was not too deep, doesn't have too many characters or places to keep track of, and does not require deep concentration. It is simply an enjoyable read.However it is not without depth or meaning. Lewis makes frequent references to HG Wells and other literary masters and philosophers, and manages to get his views across. Some of the same principles addressed in The Abolition of Man (very deep, heavy reading) are covered more effectively in Out of the Silent Planet.If you are a long-time student of CS Lewis as I am, you will also appreciate the unusual insight which this book offers into some of the authors more obscure beliefs. I have always thought Lewis a little odd, and this book confirms and reinforces that opinion. At times he goes a little overboard using the book as a podium, but that is permitted with such a master of theology and literature.One beef I have, not with Lewis but with Amazon, the that the Kindle version costs more than the paperback. I bought this while working abroad and Kindle was my only option. How can you charge more for something that has no materials, no handling or storage costs, than for a real book?
5 Lewis said that he wrote this book to "exorcise" science fiction. He devoured H. G. Wells when he was younger, and Lewis obviously shows a Wells style in the first few chapters. Dry though the beginning is, don't stop! Keep reading, because once Lewis finds his own voice, this novel takes off.Lewis presents Christian themes in ways that most theologians can't dream of. How does a pure and innocent being understand evil? It can't, but it can understand the nature of being "bent." And, of course, the whole concept of the "Silent Planet" is pure brilliance.Once you reach the middle of the novel, you won't be able to stop because Lewis creates one of his best good vs. evil battles. If you're looking for a simple Narnia tale, you won't find it here. Instead you'll find an insightful and entertaining adventure that looks into the true nature of humanity. Highly recommended.
4 This is the first book of Lewis' Space Trilogy and it has all the wonderful qualities of a SciFi/fantasy book mixed with a certain amount of theological and philosophical intellectualism that one would expect from such a distinguished author.First published in 1943, Out of the Silent Planet transcends sense of time and place with a focus on the greater themes of life, death and the pursuit of joy rather than specific scientific details.  That the book is full of allegory is not in doubt, but even the most cliched moments are written artfully and with a panache seldom seen in the genre.Those who enjoyed Mary Doria Russell's The Sparrow  will probably also enjoy this book, which is considerably less violent, but explores the same themes.  Lewis ends the book with a compelling epilogue that leaves you hungry for the remaining two books in the trilogy.  Prepare to not only suspend your beliefs, but to come away with a tremendous amount of personal insight as well.
5 I like the different ways in which the human characters reacted to the different lifeforms on mars.  It made me wonder how I would react in that situation.  The comments about the silent planet and how the overseer from earth was banished into the earth atmosphere opens other questions that makes want to continue reading the trilogy.
5 Stephen King wrote to read voraciously is to preapre to write. The bad books teach you what not to do-the great ones (if they don't intimidate you into giving up writing altogether) teach you what TO do. This novel is great for aspiring writers. We may never get published or reach the pinnacle of Lewis' work, but his work surely points us in the right direction!
5 a fun mix of theology based scifi with out contradicting todays planetary science and compeling reading. great british character development without being stuffy.
5 In C.S. Lewis's science fiction classic, Out of the Silent Planet, we follow the journey of Dr. Elwin Ransom, a Christian philologist. With piercing wit and imagery, Lewis imprints a captivating story upon our minds. During a pleasure walk, Ransom inadvertently falls into some deep entanglements, is kidnapped, and transported to another planet. Here he finds a fantastic world, of pink and purple and green plants, warm blue rivers and lakes, chill air, and narrow green mountains that nearly pierce the planet's atmosphere. Furry, intelligent creatures dwell there, and angels walk the planet regularly. Throughout his stay on this planet, Ransom sees the evil effects of greed and humanism, and finds the Creator's handiwork in other parts of the universe. This is more than just a fantasy story. It is a journey into the realms of the soul, the spirit, the heart, and the mind -- one that will leave you exhilarated an encouraged.Ryan RobledoAuthor of the Aelnathan:
5 Overshadowed in recent years by the much better known Narnia series, this marvelous, beautifully written book is only distantly related to the science fiction genre in which it is typically classed. In fact it is an  allegory, shedding rich light on the Creation, the Fall and the Redemption.  Read it!
5 I personally like this book a lot, in fact enough to give it 5 stars.  But I can see how this book is either Hot or Cold with most readers.  As with most of his fantasy/sci-fi works, Lewis filled this book with metaphors and at times the story may be a bit tedious because of his need to make these metaphors work.  Nevertheless, I think that among science fiction novels, this is a highly under-appreciated work.
4 I enjoyed this book.  It takes a little bit of brainpower to process some of it, so not something you read in one night (unlike the Narnia books, which you can get through in a couple of hours).I get the picture that Lewis, as sort of a Classics guy, got frustrated with some of the Moderns - I wonder if the character of Weston is a composite of some of the science faculty at Oxford.  The sort (and this isn't strictly "science", but an attitude about science) that would consider things like art, philosophy, & literature a whole bunch of made-up nonsense, whereas science is based on Truth, and thus scientists should be in charge.Lewis (in this as well as other works) likes to take a step back and get the reader to consider some of the unstated assumptions that shape the Modern world view, things that are so deep within the modern psyche that we are not generally conscious of them.  In this respect, sometimes Lewis sounds a bit dated, because some of the Modern thought that was prevalent in his era (and so apparently irritating to him) has faded in favor of post-modernism (whatever that means).  For example, Weston's speech (which Ransom translates rather hilariously) reflects a more colonial period and worldview, which at one time was quite prevalent, and Lewis would be at least a little bit controversial in mocking it.  But now in our post-colonial, politically correct, diversity-conscious age, we are all conditioned to see the inherent wrongness of Weston's interplanetary cultural imperialism.  Lewis himself is writing somewhere in the transitional period between Modernism and "post-modernism", so to some extent he is already beating a dead horse, but not completely - some parts of Modern thought have been quite thoroughly subsumed into the contemporary period.I thought the science fiction & fantasy elements of this story were surprisingly well done, given that Lewis himself was not a scientist, but he seemed to be at least somewhat up on things like gravity and orbital mechanics, even if there's not a lot of technical detail.  What I liked was this notion that Ransom is reflexively fearful of the aliens - in his mind, before he ever meets them, he imagines they must be both super-intelligent and super-malevolent.  And indeed, this is something deeply ingrained in us, whether it is from stories & movies we see from a very young age (E.T. & Close Encounters of the Third Kind not withstanding!), or something else that recoils at the notion of an intelligence which is not human.  So imagine the surprise when it turns out that the aliens are all decidedly non-evil, and quite happy and gentle.  The book is not quite so allegorical as the Narnia books, but the implication is clearly that the Malacandran races are not "fallen".  Borrowing from some of Lewis's other works as well, this would mean that they act according to their nature; it is Man who is the abberation among rational creatures in doing evil, by acting against his own nature, and against his own interest (all the while thinking he his seeking his own interest).  And thus it is perhaps a uniquely human trait to fear and expect evil from the non-human.Lewis did put some effort into creating some language & grammar for his Malacandrans.  I wonder if he was trying to show Tolkien that he could play at that game too, but it does come across as just that - Lewis is just playing at making up a language & grammar for the sake of his story, whereas for Tolkien it's almost like creating the language & the grammar leads naturally to the stories.  Although Lewis's writing is erudite, it lacks the "epic" and "classical" feel of Tolkien.  Lewis is more conversational and chummy.  There is a fairly long section at the end - Ransom, Weston, and Devine's audience with Osarya - in which we get a lot of speech that is English translated into Malacandran, or Malacandran back into English.  Now some of this does come across as quite funny, mostly at Weston's expense.  But since the conceit is that Ransom himself is not at all fluent, it comes across like a kindergarten reading book with simple, awkward sentences.  And it gets pretty old, since they are talking about some fairly deep stuff.  Although maybe Lewis is making a meta-point there, that for many of us our language skills (and even our very thought processes) are quite primitive when it comes to deeper questions of morality and philosophy.  No argument could convince Weston of his wrongness because that part of his brain that is meant to understand such things is stunted.There was a little bit of weirdness at the end, where we switch from the main third-person narrative, to the author's (i.e. Lewis's) point of view, where he describes how he heard the story from Ransom, with excerpts from correspondence, etc.  I think the point is to try to bring the story more into the "real world" (while also maintaining the sense that it sounds, and perhaps really is, delusional).  However, I thought it detracted a bit - left me feeling less immersed.
5 Though not known as a sci fi writer, when he tried his hand at the genre he produced a first rate work:  it has imagination and a grand chritianised scheme, vivid characters, and is full of surprises.  This man had a great, moral imagination that resonates in this thoughtful work.  This is literature, to which the best of sci-fi aspires.Warmly recommended, even for those who do not love sci fi.
5 This trilogy should be looked back upon has one of the foundation blocks that is modern science fiction. It is not only historically important to the genre, but it has remained suprisingly contemporary - a tribute to the  man's talent. The story will take you on a roller-coaster ride through the  inner solar system and the foundations of western theology. This is a story  substantially based in christian beliefs, yet one doesn't have to share all  these views to enjoy the work. C.S. Lewis (much like he did in the thought  provoking Screwtape Letters) has put human moral paradoxes and faith into a  work which is science fiction in its purest form. This trilogy is a  wonderful read at many levels. If you are like myself, you will find the  work entertaining and stimulating to the mind. If you have the opportunity,  please take a chance a read this classic.
5 Although I somewhat knew the basic plot of the book before I read it I still found it a pleasant read.  Lewis tells a pretty good sci-fi story of a kidnapped man named Ransom finding his way around Malacandra (Mars).  The wonder and awe expressed by Ransom in the book is almost worth the read in and of itself.  The 'joyful cosmology' of seeing space as the ancients did, calling them the 'heavens' is shown to be superior to the modern notion that space is just cold dead hostile nothingness.  This is contrasted with the 'joyless cosmology' of Weston who accepts some half-baked social darwinist philosophy.  The aliens were also quite interesting, although I think that Lewis could have done more with the sorns.  The hross were cool though.This was a good start to the trilogy.
3 We know so much more now...... it is almost impossible to enjoy this book, unless only for it's strictly literary qualities, and much as I love CS's writing, this isn't his best form.I probably wouldn't enjoy the John Carter books now either, although the movie did, I think, a pretty good job.God, how I devoured Jules Verne and Edgar Rice Burroughs back in the sixties! If you happen to be in that stage of life where you are seeking a return to your innocent and wonder filled youth; sure, read this series.
5 The Space Trilogy. An amazing trilogy that I absolutely loved reading. It was utterly unlike anything I expected, yet still managed to far surpass any expectation and pre-conceived notion about the text.Each book in the trilogy can be read separately, or in the larger unit, which is what I did.Out of the Silent Planet was very interesting and made me think about humans in a different light. The fear of humans is largely addressed in this book. And such descriptions!&#34;...the stars, thick as daises on an uncut lawn, reigned perpetually with no cloud, no moon, no sunrise to dispute their sway.&#34;&#34;There, totally immersed in a bath of pure ethereal colour and of unrelenting though unwounding brightness, stretched his full length and with eyes half closed in the strange chariot that bore them, faintly quivering, through depth after depth of tranquility far above the reach of night, he felt his body and mind daily rubbed and scoured and filled with new vitality.&#34;&#34;They had the experiences of a pregnant woman, but magnified almost beyond endurance.&#34;&#34;Suddenly the lights of the Universe seemed to be turned down. As if some demon had rubbed the heaven's face with a dirty sponge, the splendour in which they had lived for so long blenched to a pallid, cheerless and pitiable grey.&#34;&#34;He saw nothing but colours - colours that refused to form themselves into things.&#34;&#34;Nothing could be more disgusting than the one impression; nothing more delightful than the other. It all depended on the point of view.&#34;&#34;Bent creatures are full of fears.&#34;I have a general review here with more quotes - it really is breathtaking how amazing Lewis is with words....Really all of the books were wonderful and I highly recommend them. Middle school-aged and above should be able to appreciate the Space Trilogy. If you can only read one of them, for some reason, I would suggest Perelandra, mainly because of the depth of thought in that book. I would recommend Out of the Silent Planet if you want to reawaken a sense of wonder, and I would submit That Hideous Strength to you if you were interested in modern development and a modern good vs evil in a somewhat more applicable way as it deals post-fall instead of pre-fall as in Perelandra.C.S. Lewis is just an amazing writer. I have never read something of his I did not enjoy. Not that I've read everything he wrote, but I have read a decent portion of it. If you ever want to be challenged and read something understandable and well written, pick up C.S. Lewis.
5 this is the third part of his science fiction he wrote later.  the book is in good shape and worth the money i paid for it
2 If you&#8217;re an avid reader, chances are you have a favorite author or two. Have you ever read a book by one of your favorite authors and felt a little disappointed? That&#8217;s how I felt with C.S. Lewis&#8217; &#8220;Out of the Silent Planet.&#8221; It was published in the U.S. in 1943 and is the first book in a series called Space Trilogy (book 2 being &#8220;Perelandra&#8221; (1943) and book 3 being &#8220;That Hideous Strength&#8221; (1945)). To give you a better picture, Lewis wrote The Lion, the Witch, and The Wardrobe in 1950. Don&#8217;t get me wrong, I love C.S. Lewis, but no matter how hard I tried, I just couldn&#8217;t get into &#8220;Out of the Silent Planet.&#8221; To me, it felt evident that this was one of his first attempts at fiction.Read my post in it's entirety at: [...]
5 I found this book hard to put down over the short span it was read in. Lewis' masterful words put the character's point of view in perfect context throughout the entire novel. And his subtle approach towards life beings on other planets made for a very believable/realistic adventure. I can't wait to get my hands on the next two books in the Trilogy.Read my other reviews for great Christian books + CDs.
3 The first part of a space trilogy.  In this novel Lewis subtly injects spirituality as compared to his better known works of Christian apologetics.  This journey does not have the powerful impact that many of his other novels have had.The story begins on earth; a man (Ransom) stumbles on to two men with plans to kidnap another person on to their spacecraft; Ransom ends up being kidnapped instead.  The space ride ends with a landing onto a distant planet.  Confrontation with aliens is soon after.  Ransom ends up escaping.  He encounters many different life forms, and discovers they do not contain the evil that exists within us.  After being summonsed, Ransom ends his journey with this higher being.  He and his two kidnappers are released from the planet, and head back to earth.Lewis' English dialect is noticeable.  The punctuation usage can make going slow.Wish you wellScott
3 I am a big C.S. Lewis fan.  He won me over as a child with his Chronicle of Narnia books, but it was his thought-provoking and inspiring book Mere Christianity that solidified his genius in my mind.That being said, it is with great vacillation that I must reveal I did not care for his science fiction novel, Out of the Silent Planet, the first in the Space Trilogy series.I did not like it for the reason I don't care for much of the science fiction I read, and that is specifically the use of ridiculous words that are supposed to be the natural language of the foreign environment.  I believe that doing this in abundance, as Lewis did, distracts from the overall story and breaks up the cohesion and fluidity.Also, for me, Lewis really opened my eyes with Mere Christianity.  He literally knocked me out with his elegance and ingenuity.  But, most of what he talks about in Mere Christianity is employed as themes throughout Out of the Silent Planet.  Ordinarily this would not be a bad thing, but it just didn't work in my mind for this particular novel.  I won't ruin the plot for you if you choose to read it, but a man travels to a far off planet and there is life there that seems to represent everything we were meant to be.  Where the story fell short was in the fact that Lewis spent so much time explaining everything, not very much actually happened.Now, I've heard the second book in this series gets much better, and that the third is even better still.  Based upon this news alone, I may try the second book.  But, if I were to base my further reading of the Space Trilogy off of Out of the Silent Planet only, it would be the last.~Scott William Foley, author of Souls Triumphant
5 C.S. Lewis hits another homerun with this fantasy. I could hardly put it down until I finished it. Great read!
3 My 15 yo is reading this for school. It is slow but somewhat interesting. CS Lewis is a deep thinker and sometimes makes it difficult for the younger reader to understand everything.
5 This classic work of science fiction richly describes a vision of space that is at once both fantastic and realistic. C .S. Lewis's book captures the imagination with colorful descriptive prose amid an exciting and engaging adventure story that leaves the reader enveloped in a setting that constantly evolves upon itself. The protagonist, Elwin Ransom, is forced to think on his feet in order to forge ahead in his unfamiliar surroundings and undergoes a complete metamorphosis of character to confront his enemies. Ransom is the true definition of a dynamic character, as his struggle to understand the alien environment in which he finds himself mirrors the reader's own path through the diverse settings and plot developments. Beyond the intriguing plot, Lewis overlays a deep philosophical study of human nature. Seeing man at both his moral high and low, the reader is forced to consider "what is the acceptable price of scientific progress?" Out of the Silent Planet is a must read for anyone interested in science fiction or the wonderful writing style of a literary genius.
5 Out of the Silent PlanetC.S. LewisScribner PaperbackISBN 0684823802This is the first book in C.S. Lewis's amazing Space Trilogy. These books are far less known than Lewis's Narnia series or even his Mere Christianity or The Screwtape Letters, yet it is just as good as any of those writings and goes to show the versatility of Lewis as an author.This first book begins with our hero, Dr. Ransom, out for a walking tour in the countryside, dressed in that shabby way for which professors are renowned. His foes are his former schoolmates Devine and Weston. These men believe they need a human sacrifice, and by capturing Ransom they have their victim, for they have made a spaceship and are taking Ransom to Malacandra the red planet.Once on Mars, Ransom escapes his captors, meets many species, and finds out that on Mars there has been no `Fall' and Ransom from Earth or the Silent Planet is a bit of an oddity. People from earth are considered to be `bent' in nature, from the original sin of the fall.Follow Ransom as he treks across a strange world, and must find the courage to risk it all to save not only an alien race, but also, possibly his own soul.This is a first book in an amazing series. Try it - you won't be disappointed.PerelandraC.S. LewisScribner PaperbackISBN 0684823829This is the second book in C.S. Lewis's amazing Space Trilogy.  This book was written as a sequel to the immensely popular Out of the Silent Planet but Lewis also wrote it so that the story can stand on its own. So if you haven't read the first you can start here.This book takes place some time after the first, but we are not sure how long. Ransom has received a summons to Venus, a planet that is just beginning its inhabited life. This planet's `Adam' and `Eve' are on the planet and they must choose to obey God or to reject his law and face a `fall' as has happened on earth.Ransom must face his old foe Weston, and try to save a planet from great evil. Can he navigate this watery planet; can he negotiate the intricacies of human weakness, temptation and corruption? Can he conquer himself and help others to learn obedience?This is a great creation story. Try it - you won't be disappointed.That Hideous StrengthC.S. LewisScribner PaperbackISBN 0684823853This is the third and final book in C.S. Lewis's amazing Space Trilogy.  This book was written as a sequel to the immensely popular Out of the Silent Planet and Perelandra but Lewis also wrote it so that the story can stand on its own. So if you haven't read the first, you can start here.That Hideous Strength, unlike the first 2 books in this series, where Ransom leaves earth and fights evil in space and on other planets, the battle in this book takes place on earth.Ransom must lead a group of faithful believers against National Institute for Coordinated Experiments or N.I.C.E., an organization that believes that Science can solve all of humanity's problems. He must battle the people in this organization, super aliens trying to invade and control earth and use its population against other planets and against God.On top of all of that, Merlin has arisen from his long sleep and has arisen in England's time of greatest need.  But the question is, who will find him first - N.I.C.E. or Ransom and his team? The fate of the world, and possibly the universe, rests on this question.Lewis called this story an adult's fairy-tale. It is a mix of sci-fi and fantasy, and a book that will keep your attention as you raptly turn the pages to find out where Lewis will lead you.
5 I have stated in other reviews that good fiction is more than just telling a story, it has a purpose and a depth that makes you think long after finishing the story.  Mr. Lewis did just that for me as a young man.  Some 30 years after reading them, I still think of the story and the lessons it provided.  I still think of new caveates to the story I had not thought about before.  This is science fiction with substance.  And do not stop with this first of the trilogy but go on to the others - _Perelandra_ and _That Hideous Strenght_.  You will not be disappointed.  Just read it for the enjoyment of the story and let the rest of the substance come with time.  Good fiction gives you something to hold onto for years to come and the master storyteller Lewis left us great fiction.
5 This book was a quick and easy read.  I loved the imagery and many biblical parallels.And, of course, C.S. Lewis just has a way with words that I always love reading.
3 I love Christian fiction, fantasy and C.S. Lewis but I found &#34;Out of the Silent Plant&#34; hard to get through.  Maybe I expected too much given C.S Lewis' powerful &#34;Mere Christianity.&#34;  The look is loaded with wisdom but not enough to prompt me to recommend the book.
5 I love how Lewis wrote this. He takes you to another world letting you see how everyone works together without fighting. This is one of my favorites.
5 I must have read Out of the Silent Planet as a teenager. What other explanation for its being on my shelf, priced at 95 cents? And that reader (who I was) thought it was science fiction, or perhaps picked it because it was written by the author of the (allegedly children's literature) Narnia series.Returning to the story decades later, I see something totally different. That it is science fiction is almost irrelevant. If anything, that's just the genre which frees a writer a bit more by allowing him to suspend any historical or technological occurrence at will. But then, Mark Twain managed that in A Connecticut Yankee without calling it science fiction.Rather, a great writer abstracts the most general from human history, and paints a picture with a different color paint to highlight simply-stated big questions we all ignore. Questions as political as, "Is there enough food in the world for everyone?" (If so, why do we starve some people in order to force them to do our will?) As sublime as, "What is man?" Or, both profound and humorous, "What are pets and why do we have them?"If you have ever had the silly, if somewhat rewarding, experience of discovering a lost 20-dollar bill, now found, in a book on the shelf, consider it as a warm recommendation to re-read books. For if the bill has not changed, or perhaps lost some value, the reader has changed. Hopefully grown from experience, meeting anew the challenge of great questions in the guise of a story, one can enjoy so much more.
5 Though I don't agree with a lot of C. S. Lewis' theology, I believe he is one of the greatest Christian writers of all time. His stories inspire the imagination and teaches lessons for all to learn.In this story, Lewis' creative imagination comes out in full force. Though it is a typical sci-fi story (quite well written considering when it was first published [1938]), it teaches us compelling lessons regarding the world, cosmos, humanity, good and evil, and religion.One will find a rich resource of information on what earth could have been if humanity did not fall into sin (the "hrossa" community on Malacandria nicely depicts life in an unfallen state). It is also a nice action sci-fi that will keep you on your toes throughout. Get it and read it. You will not only be entertained but enlightened as well.
5 The Space Trilogy is just great science fiction written by one of the best writers of all time. I highly recommend it.
5 While this was not a bad science fiction novel in and of itself, I was more impressed at the social and spiritual insight that the author was able to weave into the story.  I am familiar with the writings of C.S. Lewis, and I am always impressed at the way that he can give me a fresh perspective on how I view the Christian faith.  While C.S. Lewis took some obvious liberties with cosmology and theology, I think that the unique twist that he put on the story of Satan's rebellion was very interesting, and it helped me to think about it in a different light, namely, the perspective of other angels.  Something else that I found interesting was the juxtaposition of the innocent and kind Malachandrians to the proud, self-centered Devine and Weston, and how this contrast showed what life on Earth may have been like if humanity weren't affected by evil.
5 could there be life on other planets? Oh well.The book was a very good read and brought up some questions for you to think about with out straight out asking them. Lewis is very good at doing that, and after reading this book I hope that you'll actually think about the questions it raises.
4 Very few science-fiction books treat religious themes and even fewer take religion seriously.  This short book by C.S. Lewis does both of things wonderfully.  It examines the idea of what other inhabited worlds could be like, given the assumptions of a Christian worldview.  What would an alien Fallen world look like?  What would an un-Fallen world look like?  What would the sacrifice of Christ mean to these worlds?These are some of the themes that Lewis addresses in this semi-allegorical tale.  Written in 1939, it still holds up fairly well.  Lewis concentrates on the psychological and religious aspects of the plot and offers reasonable, but not detailed, scientific explanations for the space travel, etc.  Because of this, the scientific explanations still sound plausible.Lewis does one thing in this book better than the vast majority of science fiction writers (and for this alone, the book should be read):  convey the utter incomprehension of viewing an alien world.  The pages that describe the hero's struggle to make intellectual sense of the visual sensation that is the alien world are nearly perfect.Much of the book revolves around religious themes of the nature of rational beings and the implications of the fall.  Earth is "the Silent Planet" the title refers to and Lewis' explanation of why the Earth is silent is brilliant.  The book provokes a lot of thinking and you will find yourself re-examining your assumptions on the implications of Christ's sacrifice.Lewis also has an original interpretation of the emptiness of space that is also worth the price of admission.All in all, this book is a delightful read and should be read by anyone interested in a good science fiction book.  If you are not religious in outlook, read this book to have your viewpoints challenged and to read how Lewis describes an alien world.  You will not be disappointed.
5 As both a author and reader of fiction, I enjoyed Out of the Silent Planet very much. I guess I have always liked a book that could hold my attention and make me think at the same time. Read this story.Tommy Taylor -The Second Virgin Birth
4 Harder to rate on a 2nd reading - I recall really liking it before, so I've probably added a star to make up for the fact it wasn't novel for me. I mean, it has a lot more thought going than your standard SF novel and a fabulously grand historical cosmic setting (although the characters are fairly one dimensional - almost personifications of certain viewpoints), and the fact I was expecting this undermined my pleasure.People (and aliens) are defined the way Lewis defines them: morally. Other attributes are secondary.There's the Lovecraftian sense of non-anthrocentrism, although each planet's species has a benign angelic overseer - except humanity. From this come all our ills, particularly illustrated in this story, greed and humanism. The former is dismissed cursorily, the latter more carefully undermined, challenging the notion that technological advances bestow rightful authority (a far less popular idea since 1945).As a wonderful idea to explore an argument and a world view, this is admirable. Moreover Lewis respectfully and ably adapted H.G. Wells' style for his own purposes. Look elsewhere, however, for action sequences, snappy dialogue, and psychology: Lewis' characters consistently, purely and rationally act out their basic convictions.
5 Books such as these cannot fail to change you.  There have been many books in my life which I could say that about, but short of the Bible, I think these surpass them all (Tolkien's Lord of the Rings or G.K. Chesterton's Man Who Was Thursday being the only serious competition).I cannot speak about these books without a tone of awe, it would be absolutely useless to try and explain why.  Please trust me - read these, and many times, too.
5 This is a great story, which will draw the reader in and take him to a very different world with very different peoples.  As the first of C.S. Lewis's celebrated Space Trilogy, it will set the stage for the other two books which follow it, each on a different planet.
5 I loved this book and would like to see a movie made of The Space Trilogy, even if it were just a single film vaguely based on the three books---think /Avatar/ with a real message.My family read this book aloud.For me, this book was more engaging than Lewis' famous /The Lion, The Witch, and the Wardrobe/.It is a bizarrely unusual book, which blends fantasy and science fiction with religious, moral, and philosophical symbolism.It is set on Mars, ha!But somehow it is beautiful and relateable nonetheless.
5 I really enjoyed reading this one. I finished it in a couple days, which with having 2 small children and being pregnant was not easy. I just could not put it down when I had time to spare (usually late at night). I am very impressed with the unique story line and the ties to the Christian belief but still very sci-fi and creative. I strongly recommend.
5 The Space Trilogy is by far my favorite series of all time.I loved them as an early teen, and recently purchased them again for my son.Actually, I gave the first set away, purchased them again several years later to re-read, gave those away, and have now purchased them for the 3rd time.If you like C.S. Lewis, Tolkien, or the like, you will love these books.
3 I believe C.S. Lewis wrote a masterpiece in the late 1930's, but it's hard  to make a space travel piece about our solar system relevent for today.  I  was really hoping the &quot;planet&quot; they were going to was one of the  moons of Neptune or something like that, but as a species we've just  learned too much about Mars and have experienced too much real space travel  for me to be excited about a book that guesses what both would be like,  often incorrectly.Looking at it through 21st century eyes ruined most  of the fun of the original work.  When he thinks he's looking at the moon  from space and finds it is really the earth I cringed.  We learned many  years after that, but still over 30 years ago, that the earth and moon look  nothing alike and no one could make this mistake.Putting aside the  science and forgetting it's a space trip, what does the work have to offer  in an allegorical sense on the condition of mankind?  Again I feel it is  dated.  When Lewis had written this book it was the era of the great powers  when the sun never set on the British empire.  From Africa to the Middle  East to India to South East Asia all were under British rule simply because  they felt it was their right to do so and the native cultures could not  stop them.  The Weston tie in to the British Empire attitude would have  been apparent and very strong to the readship of the 1930's, but many  changes have taken place.  The destruction of World War II caused dramatic  changes across the globe that saw the disintegration of the British empire  and the view point of forced dominance that went along with it.So  while I think this work is well done, I wish I could have read it 60 years  ago instead of now.  For works that last through time I much prefer the  Chronicles of Narnia, his other great series, that still touches the lives  of many today.
5 How thoroughly refreshing--and how thoroughly embarrassing.  Refreshing in that this is science fiction from an innocent, one might even say nave, age. Here we find no light sabers, no warp cores, no wormholes. Even the alien lifeforms are recognizable as having been inspired by an imagination steeped in the reality of earthly creatures or, at least, of earthly imaginations. If "Star Wars" takes us to the pinnacle of futuristic combat, then "Out of the Silent Planet" takes us to a calmer milieu where sanity, reason, and compassion still exert major influence. I found the environment a relief from the high stress levels of most contemporary science fiction.Now, why is the book also thoroughly embarrassing?  First, understand that the sci-fi genre is merely a stage trapping, a setting in which a serious drama unfolds as the playwright directs.  The embarrassment is in the message of the drama.  Except for one rather annoying (and carnivorous) water creature, the alien races that one meets in Lewis' novel are far more civilized and rational than are two of the three humans plunked into their midst, and even the third affronts the alien culture through his irrational fear.  These representatives of the human race just do not comport themselves as one would like!Many critics intent on explicating Lewis' works see the heavy influence of Lewis' Christian philosophy at work, and, indeed, the "Chronicles of Narnia" do provide imaginative allegories for Christian beliefs.  I do not, however, find such heavy-handedness to be at work in "Out of the Silent Planet," though there are some neat creatures that do remind one of fanciful angels. Approach "Silent Planet" expecting to re-discover science fiction as the genre began and don't expect heavy-duty allegorical figures or any sort of super-technology at work.Do, however, anticipate quite a bit of implied criticism of the human species--a criticism that the actions of Lewis' characters show may be well deserved!Oh, one final observation:  One of the absolute joys of this book is Lewis' fine command of the English language.  His writing is a thing of beauty--smooth, flowing, close to perfection in its grammatical simplicity and polish.  Would that we could all write with such fine skill.
5 Absolutely engrossing science fiction, fantasy. There's really very little action, and the science is, of course, dated. However, the story is told in a very engaging manner. That it is written by a master storyteller is obvious as I was, from the first page, spellbound, and could not get enough of it. Put aside thoughts of intellectualism, theology, and philosophy. Keep it by the bedstand, and simply enjoy. The book is short, just 160 pages, and so I can't wait to obtain the next installment of the trilogy. Absolutely refreshing.
5 Like many older works of science fiction we now know that the planetary descriptions are definitely not correct. But, like many of those works, the story stands on its own merits outside of the science.Out of the Silent Planet is the first book in a trilogy which explores a great number of religious and philosophical questions by taking the protagonist to Mars (in this book) and Venus (in the next). The story is still fun to read, even on the sixth or seventh go-around. The plot is very well constructed. The villains are chosen to represent certain philosophical viewpoints and thus are a little latter than the protagonist and several of the Martian characters.Although I think anyone could enjoy the story, to fully enjoy it you will need to be at least in sympathy with Lewis' Christian viewpoint, as it flavors the entire work, and crucial plot elements (such as the entire organizational structure of the planets) are based on Lewis' Christian speculations and readings.
4 This is a light and entertaining work, with some interesting moral and spiritual insights.  Readers should treat it as science fantasy, not science fiction, for in the modern exploration of Mars, Lewis' description of it as "Malacandra" would be untenable.  Nonetheless, as science fantasy it accomplishes being an entertaining and sometimes thought-provoking reading, concerned with the values of religion and philosophy (in Ransom and the Malacandrans) as pitted against a very radical scientific humanism (in the character of Weston and Devine).  Lewis wrote the story with the critique of seemingly "godless" scientific views in mind, and his main characters explore not only the dimension of space, but of time, and of human and religious morality as well.  It was not my most favorite book, but many readers will continue to appreciate it.
4 This is a period piece - a thoughtful work from the era not far from Doc Smith. It's also a wonderful classic.Lewis lays out a stark set of characters: the amoral scientist, the money-grubbing capitalist, and our protagonist, a bit of a blank slate. As in H.G.Wells' Time Machine, our correspondent arrives in a land where different faculties of modern thought have been split into distinct species. The first is the literati, the poets. They are agrarians for a living, but exist for expression in the spoken (not written) word. They are also warm - by measured body temperature - and fuzzy. The next are almost an intelligentsia, but it turns out that their thoughts are all second-hand. They know about their world and about other wolds, but it seems that their instruments and insights were all given to them by agencies unspecified. This species, not surprisingly, is tall and pale - a walking ivory tower. Going beyond Wells' two-way split, we have a third sapient species: a combination of sculptor, engineer, and grovelling toad.After that, the further divisions become more interesting. There are the eldil. They are very nearly invisible, and their voices can't always be heard. Wherever they appear, though, they carry the word and will of some superior being. There is also Oyarsa, the law of the world, but a unique and living being. Oyarsa is just the law of one world, though, and knows that there are other worlds and other laws. Finally, there is the undefined Maleldil, to whom all Oyarsa are subordinate.Mankind, of course, is measured and found wanting. With Lewis' Christian orientation, though, it could be that human Original Sin is just a local aberration, caused by a defective Law that created our defective world. Lewis also makes it tempting to infer a hierarchy of seraphim and angels, below a planetary hierarchy of Oyarsan archangels. By distant inference, higher, galactic levels of hierarchy could also exist.This is almost a morality play. Our hero is Ransom, held ransom against our species' good behavior. The miser is Devine [sic], perhaps by opposites. The amoral plunderer is Weston (western?). It reads well next to Piers Plowman, for example.C. S. Lewis followed all the canons of good space opera. He also turned C. P. Snow's two worlds into two literal worlds. By today's standards, this is a slim volume. It is dense, though, and carries its weight. I enjoyed coming back to it.
5 Why the 5 stars? Hey it's C.S. Lewis, what else can I say? I thought this was very thought provoking. It's great work by one of the greatest authors of all time. I think everyone should take the time to read at least one of C.S. Lewis's works. If you've read the Narnia series, you find a similarity where Lewis takes Dr. Ransom and his companions (2 to be exact) and takes them to a whole new world. That's where the imagination kicks in and C.S. Lewis takes you for a ride! It is always a treat to read any work by this man! Kudos!
5 This is the first book in Lewis' acclaimed Space Trilogy wich also consists of Perelandra and That Hideous Strength. I first read this book when I was in junior high and didn't really remember much about it. So, I decided to read it again. Plus, I never read the rest of the books in the trilogy and am planning to do so soon.In this book, we are introduced to Dr. Ransom, a professor of ancient languages, who is kidnapped by a couple of evil scientists and taken to a planet called Malacandra. Thinking that he is being given over to some alien life-form as a sacrifice, Ransom quickly escapes from his human captor's grasps and takes off on a trek across this strange planet that he has found himself on. However, all is not what it seems and Ransom soon begins to see a bigger picture of what is taking place on Malacandra. In the end, Ransom learns a great deal about this beautiful planet, but even more about himself and the rest of humanity on earth.The descriptions Lewis uses in writing about the planet are quite extensive and beautiful at the same time. Although some might think that the author seems to be a little long-winded at times, he definitely makes you feel like you are experiencing the same visions and adventures that Dr. Ransom himself has been placed into.Not only is this a provocative space-fantasy, it is also a disguised social commentary on the affects of sin and the evil that springs forth from it. Although an excellent science-fiction novel with an allegorical sub-story, this is not a "lite" read. Those that are only familiar with Lewis' Narnia books may not enjoy this one as much. However, those that have read some of his other works such as Mere Christianity or The Screwtape Letters should enjoy it immensely and will even notice a lot of the same themes throughout.
5 An excellent series from my favorite Christian writer.  A very fun read and a page turner to boot!  I can highly recommend this believers of all ages!
5 I very rarely write reviews but this deserved one.  I read this about 20 years ago and enjoyed it then.  Now it's quite fascinating as well.  In fact, chapter 9 is one of the creepiest, most disturbing works on evil I have ever read.  The face of evil that he portrays is even more disturbing that the corporate structure if Evil he brought forth in "The Screwtape Letters."(I am also aware that the fact that I'm reading it during the Halloween season could have influenced my reaction...still, it made my skin crawl!)His writing style can get tough to read but, if the reader makes an effort, many layers can be seen.  In fact, I see many parallels to the treatment of Native Americans and the Aboriginals of Australia by colonialism.  Or course, that could just be me.
5 As the second book in the Space Trilogy, this one is really able to shoot straight out quickly and it does get right into things. While there is an overarching story, this one tends to be philosophy as story driven. Where book one was more about the inhabitants of Mars also recognizing God, this one is Venus as Eden and a new temptation. I would liken this book to the first book of the Narnia series. There is an interesting story with a different world but the Christian symbolism is more direct. The storyline is interesting and the portion where three of the main characters are interacting is very interesting and well written. I would have liked Lewis to have written more specifics in the conversation portion of this part of the book as it's a great &#34;What If...&#34; book. &#34;What if fallen man had been there to help Eve at the Temptation?&#34; Very interesting read and so far the best of the series. Final grade - A-
4 I refer to the Pan Book published in 1963 under the title 'Voyage to Venus'.  The visual experience so richly experienced by readers of 'Out of the Silent Planet' is even exceeded here. Although it is less varied, it is more magical and evocative. The story itself contains much philosophy and religion much of which I am uncomfortable with, unsure of, or confused by.  I am left with too many questions, and there are too many alternate paths for the story which are not excluded by its own inner logic.  We all know the first few bars of Beethoven's Fifth Symphony. It is unthinkable that it could have been an ascending phrase rather than a descending one. The inner logic of the symphony demands it to be the way Beethoven wrote it. With 'Perelandra' this is not so for me. The story could have gone in different directions and at the end I am unconvinced by the direction C S Lewis did take it.  But, having said that, it is a wonderful vision that has remained strongly with me since I first read the book while I was at High School and was great to renew (and the rediscovery of 'Out of the Silent Planet' at High School when I had read it even earlier in my life was similar) .
5 As would be expected from a mind such as this, a very intriguing book full of theological implications that challenge the mind.
4 C. S. Lewis presents some amazingly advanced concepts with regard to quantum physics wrapped in a story about space travel to Venus. In this second book of his trilogy, Ransom meets the king and queen of Venus, who happen to be the only humanoids on the planet. And they are green. Ransom spends quite a bit of time trying to learn about this very strange planet and its inhabitants. Once again he is confronted with his nemesis who also arrives on Venus, intent on corrupting and destroying. With help from a God like creature, he is able to prevail and eventually get back to Earth.
4 The Space Trilogy is not the Chronicles Of Narnia!  Rather than the allegorical representation of Lewis' theology, the Space Trilogy is a fairly blatant representation of his beliefs.  As an atheist and anti-theist, C.S. Lewis is my favorite theologian.  I found the stories to be interesting and compelling on their own and as vechicles for his ideas.
5 Though I am not a Christian I still appreciate the masterly exposition of his vision of the solar system under the auspices of maleldil and his angels. ..
5 At one point while reading I was overwhelmed and had to stop to catch my breath and my thoughts.  If you have gotten to a point where reading the Bible seems like some stale old story, and wished that you could be overpowered and enraptured in its story once again, you want to read Perelandra.
4 I enjoyed the read.  I liked the old world style and the need to look up obscure referances.  It was a bit tideous because of this but the story line was catchy.
5 The second book in the Lewis' Space Trilogy series finds Dr. Ransom making the the trip to Perelandra (Venus), a beautiful land of floating islands and extraordinary creatures. He meets the Green Lady, untouched by evil, shame or guilt. Ransom's old nemesis, Weston soon shows up and ends up being possessed by evil, seeking to convince the Green Lady (Eve on Earth) that Maledil (Jesus) really wants her to disobey so she can become "older" (the term for wisdom). In a stark contrast with the events on Earth, Ransom's intense struggle with Weston ends up with the destruction of Weston and the ushering in of paradise with the Green Lady and the King. An extraordinarily rich and profound spiritual allegory.
4 This is the second book of Lewis' Space Trilogy series (follows "Out of the Silent Planet"). This book gives interesting insight on the parallel between "earth" man's first temptation and Perelandra man's first temptation. Interestingly, the fight against evil by the Perelandra soul seemed to be much stronger than the resistance offered by our own human brethren. This led me to wonder if Lewis was really writing about a general fight between good and evil or if he was actually pointing out how spiritually weak humans are, and our incredible need of a Messiah. The premise is fascinating in line with all of Lewis' writing. However, unlike "Out of the Silent Planet", I found the pace of this book to be just a bit slow. I realize Lewis was purposefully trying to generate more philosophical thought, which was quite enriching, I just liked the pacing of "....Silent Planet" a bit more. Overall, this was a good second novel to continue the series.
5 Too many who review this book, and indeed this is unfortunately the case with many books, tend to place themselves in judgment of the message of the book rather than the skill and captivating nature of the writer.Make no mistake, Lewis has a message here.  He uses fiction, (science fiction even if you make allowances for the writing of this before the dawn of the genre as we now see it) as a vehicle for a most deliberate and targeted presentation of the Eden narratives of the Bible and the philosophical questions that underpin them.Lewis makes it work wonderfully.  Lewis' contemporary and close friend J.R.R. Tolkien often criticized Lewis about this penchant for allegory, a form Tolkien pruported to despise in all its forms when he identified it.  But Lewis utilizes a marvelous command of the English language and a mature, polished writing style that should leave the reader enjoying the story if s/he will just allow themselves to be carried with it.  Agreement with the allegorical underpinnings is not required to enjoy and appreciate the read.This book begs to be read twice.  Once for the literary experience and then again to delve into the allegorical meanings if you wish.  There are few works that stand the test of enjoying it whether you agree with that or not.This book does!
5 I agree with many of the other reviewers that this book is definitely the best of the trilogy. It is a thought-provoking novel that gives a clear vision of human nature, how our sinful nature came to be, and how it can be defeated. In Perelandra Lewis uses a less confrontational genre (the fictional novel) to deal with deep philosophical questions like &quot;If sin is bad for people, then why does God put that forbidden fruit-tree in the garden of Eden and allow sin into the world?&quot; And the explanation he offers in this novel is deeply satisfying.  Overall, this book is a great read. Lewis is definitely the master of writing fiction that is both beautiful in literary style and philosophically interesting.
5 In this, the second book of CS Lewis's Space Trilogy, we find Dr. Ransom off on another interplanetary adventure, this time to Venus.  Instead of finding himself on an `old' planet, like he did on Malacandra, he finds that life on Perelandra (Venus) is relatively new; in fact, the woman he meets there is still in an `unfallen' state.  In other words, she is in a state of innocence much like Eve was in the Garden of Eden.Ransom knows he has been sent to Perelandra for a purpose, but he does not know what that purpose is.  He soon finds out.  Weston, his old rival and former captor, shows up on the planet.  Ransom soon discovers that Weston is possessed by an evil force, and calls him the 'Unman.' He then spends all his time trying to protect the woman and keep her from `falling,' so that the fate of the new planet will not be like Earth's.This book continues in the allegorical style set forth in the first part of the series Out of the Silent Planet, though Perelandra takes it one step further.  This book is more of a religious work than the first one, though, and the moral implications set forth in Planet are both enlarged and expanded.  More than just a story of the fall, this book details the true ramifications of the battle of good and evil.  It dares explore such questions as why God allows temptation in the world and why we should make our will subordinate to his.To fans of Milton, the story will seem somewhat familiar, and undoubtedly Lewis used much of Paradise Lost as a basis for this work.  The fact that he published a preface to Milton's work the same year this book was written seems hardly coincidental.  Still, this book teems with freshness and a unique insight that only CS Lewis can provide.  This is a classic work by the master of Christian apology.
3 I had read the first installment of this trilogy, and I couldn't put it down. Not so, with this second offering. I found it hard to follow, in the depth of spirituality it was eluding to. I found myself trying to remember who was who, and what planet they were really on!It didn't keep me from purchasing the third book, however, which I'm finding to be a 180 from the first two, in style and subject.
1 Another book that you could use as a cure for insomnia. Try and do a Jules Verne type story.  Take the fun and adventure out.  Make it boring and unappealing.  Voila.  You have C.S. Lewis's planet trilogy.  Characters should seem a little bit like people, in general, if they are supposed to actually be human beings.
5 This is, without doubt, the best novel I've ever read. It even beats The Lord of the Rings trilogy. C. S. Lewis's power of description, psychological insight, and emotional intensity reach a height here that is unparalleled. But beyond such engaging writing, Perelandra gives us poetry in prose, reality in story, theology in fantasy, truth in myth. It is an evocative tale, so compelling that for a faint second I could have believed it was true, and that Lewis was describing real events, not fictitious ones! And that is because it is so deeply grounded in the reality of The Great Dance, the drama of creation and redemption which is being enacted upon the stage of humanity. The final pages of this book sent my spirits soaring. I can scarcely describe its impact upon me. Take it and read.
5 I loved the first book in this series, Out of the Silent Planet, but this book made me fall in love with the series all over again.
5 I love this book - it is my favorite in the series, as it gives a great example of Eve's temptation in the garden, and the possible result if she hadn't fallen for the temptation. If you can get through the heavy language and description in the first chapter, you are in for a treat as Lewis shows you an entirely new planet and describes things only a great imagination could come up with.
3 This is the second book in C.S. Lewis' popular Space Trilogy about the adventures of Dr. Ransom of Cambridge, which includes &quot;Out of the Silent Planet,&quot; &quot;Perelandra,&quot; and &quot;That Hideous Strength.&quot;Set on the planet Perelandra, which we know as Venus, Dr. Ransom must battle the greatest of all human vunerabilities -- temptation.  The story is very similar to the story of the Fall in Genesis, and Lewis twists his story a little bit to add many of his own philosophical and theological views.  This book is recommended for all C.S. Lewis fans as it is one of his more important works.
5 This is one of my favorites. C.S. Lewis manages a delightful story, mixed with wonderful things to imagine, all blended with what looks to me like very practical theology with no conflicts I can see with Biblical theology, all wrapped in truly glorious prose that is almost poetry.
4 I bought this book for school. It was a good read if you like science fiction as far as science fiction goes.
4 This book is disappointing after "Out of the Silent Planet", not because Lewis's skill has become worse in any way, but because this time he is preaching to the choir.  The subject is "Original Sin", the notion that humans are inherently sinful because some ancestors disobeyed a basically meaningless command.  Now the story is being re-enacted on another planet, Perelandra, and the hero Ransom is trying to keep the new species from making the same mistake.  If you believe in Original Sin, you will probably find the story very dramatic.  If you believe in some other religious tradition (as I do) or no religious tradition, you will probably find the storyline boring and overwrought.  This was not the case in Out of the Silent Planet, where the reader was presented with an inherently interesting situation and the doctrine was saved until the end.Likewise, the background is less imaginative than in Out of the Silent Planet.  Malacandra was wonderfully alien, with the three unusual intelligent species and the wierd but plausible landscape.  Perelandra is a stereotypical tropical paradise, with a few extra features like friendly dragons and floating islands.  The species is not new but a copy of homo sapiens (doctrinal explanations again).For once I found myself wishing that a sequel had stuck closer to the original masterpiece.
3 You really have to be into that kind of fictional reading to really get into this book, this was not an easy read for me. Too mch criss crossing between fantasy and reality within the book.
4 Perelandra is a fine Christian allegory of the Garden of Eden, in particular Eve.  I recommend that you set aside some quiet time to read this book, as it is a hard one to read with a lot of distractions around you, but great if you can take your time and focus on the imagery and beauty of the planet, inhabitants, and story.  This is one of those books that can read a few times and understood differently each time.
5 Perelandra is a masterful book.  The space allotted for this review cannot accommodate all the greatness this book holds.  So much that is wrong with modern Christianity could be &#34;fixed&#34; if Christians were willing to consider the wondrous thoughts presented in this book.  I cannot think of any other book (besides the Bible) in which God is so fully glorified as the Lord of the Universe.  While most of us tend to interpret our daily existence through the lens of life on earth, Lewis challenges us to think beyond the stars and consider the fullness of God beyond our realm and our history.  There are passages which must be read more than once to capture the fullness of what the author is trying to say, but the effort is clearly worth it.I read this book about once every two years or so.  It reminds me to set my eyes toward heaven, and that doesn't mean at the blue sky above.
5 This is my favorite book ever. C.S. Lewis is a master who can fuse theology and science fiction into the most beautiful novel I've read. Ransom is a marvelous protagonist who does not seem like the type to lead these theological musings. If you enjoyed any of Lewis' other books, especially his works of fiction, you will like the Deep Heaven Trilogy of which this book is the second.
4 I very much enjoyed the mix of C.S. Lewis' ideas of human nature within a sci-fi purist setting. If you can only read one of the three books in this trilogy, this is the one that you should read.
4 C.S. Lewis was able to write so many genres: children's books, cerebral treatises, and fantasy allegory. Perelandra was touted as a science fiction drama, but the action I associate with drama was pretty nil. While missing a more modern drama with cliff-hanging excitement, it was a feast for the intellect. Always an allegorical proselyte, Lewis demands us to focus while we dream of his other-worldly fight of good v. evil. If you love his fantastical worlds with a moral, you would surely love this book. I found it a bit of a slog from time to time, but Lewis demands our attention. A favorite quote from the Green Lady, speaking to Ransom: "One goes into the forest to pick food, and already the thought of one fruit rather than another has grown up in one's mind. Then it may be one finds a different fruit and not the fruit one thought of. One joy was expected and another is given. . . You could send your soul after the good you had expected instead of turning it to the good you got. You could refuse the real good; you could make the real fruit taste insipid by thinking of the other." Essentially . . . "it's all good" as they say. . . . Take what you get and declare it good.
4 Now here is the C.S. Lewis I remember and love! "Out of the SIlent Planet," the first book in the space trilogy, wasn't nearly as good as it was cracked up to be. But this one was fantastic. It had all of the elements that make up some of Lewis' best fictional work: allegory with a moral purpose and fantasy with a large dose of wonder. In this book, Lewis takes the tale of the downfall of man from the book of Genesis and wonders what would've happened if there had been someone there to challenge the devil before he had fully tempted Eve. Lewis also sheds much of the analytical prose that weighed down the first book and has wonderful elements that could be read straight from a self-improvement book, but still fits snugly into the story. Chapter 11 is absolutely amazing in that respect. Still, this book does make it's allegory a little too obvious as it goes along. In fact, halfway through, Lewis seems to give up on the allegory angle somewhat and actually talks about God and has his main character praying to God. All things considered, this is an amazing story, a vast improvement over the last one, and makes me excited to read the final one.
5 Like the first in the series I found this book to be fast paced and challenging to interpert in its sybolisim. It was a very good story.
5 CS Lewis illustrates through glittering and luminous imagery a tale  enwrapped with soul and heartache.  He again shatters my preconcieved  notions of science fiction as a genre.  This tale is worth the time, it's  not an escape, it's a reexamination of reality.  Lewis dons prescience of  the pitfalls of new age as well as teaching us about temptation and the  wiles of the enemy.  Beautiful, beautiful.  There are some parts that you  may have to be patient as you absorb the atmosphere of this landscape, but  I seriously read this book while walking to my car and I just couldn't  stop.  Very Very good.
2 When I was reading the first book in this series, "Out of the Silent Planet" (1938), several people commented to me that the sequel, "Perelandra" (1943), was much better.  As a result, my expectations were fairly high going into this book.  My expectations were not met, as I found this to be a very disappointing book.  While the first book was very imaginative and free flowing, this one was much less imaginative and felt very forced and contrived.  Lewis' conception of the planet was the one area where he allowed his imagination to really shine.  For his Venusians though, he reverted back to what are essentially humans, as he retells the story of Adam and Eve.The story is narrated by a friend of Dr. Ransom, who was summoned to see Ransom at his cottage and learns that Ransom is to be sent to Perelandra (Venus) to counter the diabolical forces of the bent Oyarsa who is trying to subvert the people of that world.  Since the book's narration is written from the future, we already know that Dr. Ransom has successfully made the trip to Perelandra and back.  This differs from the first book, in which we didn't know what would happen to him, which added to the suspense.Dr. Ransom is sent to Perelandra in what appears to be a coffin, powered by supernatural forces.  Once there, he encounters the Lady, who is the Eve for her planet.  Shortly after that, he discovers that Weston has also traveled to Perelandra, and that he is in fact the agent of the bent Oyarsa who is attempting to cause the fall of humanity on that planet as occurred on Earth.  While Weston thinks he is spreading his new faith, he clearly is being controlled by a diabolical force and ultimately only his body remains as the domination becomes more complete.There are some interesting moral discussions, as Weston (or the Un-man as he is then referred to) and Ransom try to win over the Lady with their words.  Ultimately though, Ransom is called upon to use physical violence to destroy the demon/Weston, and I question what Lewis was trying to say with this turn of events.  Is he indicating that violence is a justifiable method of spreading your message?  Lewis took the higher moral ground when one compares "Out of the Silent Planet" with what he perceived to be Stapledon's message in "The Last and First Men", but here he seems to be taking the low road.  He appears to be taking the position that it is okay to turn to violence to push one's beliefs when one's words prove to be insufficient.This book is not completely without merit, but it is not nearly as good, in my opinion, as "Out of the Silent Planet".  It is a bit longer than the first book, but at 190 pages it is still fairly short for a novel.  While it is not necessary to read "Out of the Silent Planet" before reading this book, it certainly does fill in the back story and enhances the experience.  "Perelandra" was originally published in 1943, and has also been published under the alternate title of "Voyage to Venus".
4 In this book, Lewis stimulates the senses with his descriptions of bubble trees, floating islands, colorful skies, beautiful sounds and strange creatures.  (It was a compliment to Lewis when one reader complained of being seasick after reading about the floating islands.)  From the standpoint of imaginative scene painting, Lewis is at his best in PERELANDRA.  His plot involves a wonderful twist on an old story:  the Genesis fall of mankind.  It is no coincidence that Lewis was lecturing on Milton at the same time that he was composing PERELANDRA.  In fact, reading Lewis's PREFACE TO PARADISE LOST, John Milton's PARADISE LOST, and Lewis's PERELANDRA in this order forms a nice trilogy, one I recommend trying.  The chief shortcoming of PERELANDRA is exactly what the reader from Eureka, CA says:  the story drags in the middle.  The action and forward movement of the plot are too slow for my taste.  Lewis's tendancy towards repetitive writing also slows things at times, especially near the very end when he goes through several pages of &quot;praise be he&quot; statements.  Despite these pecadillos, the book is definitely worth reading for the beauty, the intriguing plot, and for background to THAT HIDEOUS STRENGTH.
5 Since Out of the Silent Planet, the first book of C.S. Lewis&#8217;s Space Trilogy, told the story of Elwin Ransom&#8217;s journey to Malacandra, the planet we call Mars, it is fitting that the second book, Perelandra, is the story of Ransom&#8217;s voyage to the planet Perelandra, which we name Venus. The two trips could not be more unlike, however. Instead of being kidnapped and taken into space, this time Ransom is given a mission by the Oyarsa, the angelic ruler of Malacandra. He is taken to Perelandra by the eldili in a coffin made of ice.When Ransom arrives, he discovers (in accordance with the science fiction tropes of the time) that while Malacandra is an older and dying world, Perelandra is a younger planet with a worldwide ocean. In fact, the first two people, the Perelandran Adam and Eve, had just been created. Ransom soon meets the Perelandran Eve, a green-skinned humanoid that he calls the Queen. She has been separated from her husband, the King. The King and Queen are unfallen and live in Paradise, like Adam and Eve, and like Adam and Eve, they have been given a commandment. In their case, they have been forbidden to leave the reed mat islands, which are their home and live on the only solid land on Perelandra.Ransom is soon joined by his old enemy Professor Weston who comes to Perelandra in a spaceship similar to the one he used to take Ransom to Malacandra. Weston is not the same man Ransom knew on Earth and Malacandra. After speaking to him, Ransom realizes that Weston has been possessed by a devil, or perhaps even the Devil and he has come to tempt the Queen into disobeying the eldill and Maleldil, just as he had done with Earth&#8217;s Adam and Eve. Ransom calls this creature the Unman Ransom&#8217;s mission, then, is to prevent the Queen from falling. If he cannot persuade her, he must engage the Unman in physical combat, even at the expense of his own life.Perelandra is more spiritually or supernaturally oriented than Out of the Silent Planet, and Lewis presents more of his theology in it, especially his thoughts on the nature of evil. Lewis does not make the mistake, as some writers do, of portraying evil as exciting or interesting or intelligent. In Out of the Silent Planet, evil is described as &#8220;bent&#8221;, some quality or thing not acting or being used according to its proper function or role. In Perelandra, as well as some of his other writings, evil is shown to be a lessening of a person or thing. The person who turns to evil becomes less of an individual. Weston as the Unman is less than he was as the scientist who discovered how to travel through space. The Unman is clever and charming while he is tempting the Queen, but when off duty, so to speak, he lapses into imbecility and childish taunting of Ransom. Towards the end of their struggle, Weston seems to temporarily regain control of himself and tells Ransom of his experience dying and coming back to life. Ransom is never sure whether Weston actually was speaking or the demon was trying to trick him. In the end, Ransom decides that it simply doesn&#8217;t make any difference. When Weston and the demon turned to evil, they began to lose the qualities that made them individuals. Eventually all that is evil becomes indistinguishable.Lewis will also have nothing to do with the idea of a fortunate fall, the idea that Adam and Eve were ignorant of evil in their innocence and that at least they gained knowledge. The Unman does tempt the Queen with the knowledge of good and evil, yet she and the King gain more knowledge of good and evil by rejecting temptation than by falling. The King and Queen inform Ransom, at the end of the book, that the people of Thulcandra, our Earth, are more ignorant of evil than they are, because of the Fall and our own evil deeds.Perelandra is, if anything, even more entertaining than Out of the Silent Planet and is a worthy sequel to that book, although like all of C. S. Lewis&#8217;s fiction, it is as much a work of apologetics as story, and Perelandra is, as I have said more theologically oriented than that earlier work. The reader who does not agree with Lewis&#8217;s religious beliefs may like Perelandra less well, but I can recommend it.
5 Shall we call Perelandra an ecological fantasy?  A psycho-drama?  A novelized philosophical symposium?  An illustrated Bible story?  Whatever it is, the undoubted &quot;star&quot; of the novel is the planet Perelandra.  There, Lewis creates not one world, but several distinct ecosystems: his unforgetable floating islands, (in Surprised by Joy and his autobiographical allegory Pilgrim's Regress Lewis describes how islands have been his symbol for paradise since childhood), the Fixed Lands, an undersea world of mermaids, an environment of caves, and finally the wonderfully complex world of the hero's shifting consciousness.  The inner dialogue before and during the climactic scenes falls nothing short of genius.I agree with the reviewer below that the beauty Lewis imagines brings it out and makes us notice the beauty around us.  As one of Lewis' favorite writers, G. K. Chesterton, put it, &quot;Nursery tales only echo an almost pre-natal leap of interest and amazement.  These tales make the rivers run with wine only to make us remember, for one wild moment, that they run with water.&quot;  As I walk through the bamboo groves of Japan, or remember skin-diving in Hawaii or camping in the Cascades, the effect that the bubble trees and night smells of Perelandra have on me similarly brings out the wonder of the earthly creation.As in all of Lewis' works, scene and plot are also the vehicle for the expression of philosophical ideas.  Lewis plays with speculation about the nature of primitive man, ideas about gender like the Chinese Yin Yang theory, and a scathing critique of monism.  (If, like Jim Jones or the Bagwan Rajneesh, his villain were a real person -- if that is the right term for them -- I suspect he too might be quite popular.)I note with amusement the complaint below that Perelandra is overtly Christian.  Imagine that.  The famous Christian apologist allowing metaphysics to muddy up his sci-fi novel.  I wonder if people make the same complaints about Milton or Camus?  Not that I am comparing Lewis to them -- &quot;the same wave never comes twice&quot; and Lewis can stand on his own in any crowd.  Lewis may get a bit carried away at the end with his &quot;cosmic dance&quot; stuff; one of the book's few faults.  But if you are not interested in ultimate issues of right and wrong, God and human choice, why pick up a novel by C. S. Lewis?author, Jesus and the Religions of Man d.marshall@sun.ac.jp
5 What will be found on the planet Perelandra? I hardly had a clue until I read this book! I found the descriptions of the planet to be surprising and very imaginative. It was not what I expected. The illustration by Kinuko Craft of whales, dragons, and palm trees on the cover of the edition I purchased is very good and hints at the story without giving too much information away. The story is a powerful morality tale. The author managed to tell the story with very few characters which I thought was interesting and a bit surprising. Most of the book is great but there are some grim parts that dragged on a bit longer than I would have liked. Evil is a persistence that makes wary the tempted. Do not worry, it is not all gloom. There are many light hearted moments in the book too! Overall I like this book and recommend it for fans of the previous book. This is the second book of a trilogy. It takes place between "Out of the Silent Planet" and "That Hideous Strength" (please see my reviews of those two books for more details). The books of the trilogy tie together, but they were also written to be read independently of each other. A note to sensitive readers: There is more descriptive violence and malevolence in this story than the last one, but there are also many parts of the story that are wonderful and fun!
1 - we'd still be in Paradise. Old professor Lewis, you see, would have talked simpleton Eve (clearly, Lewis believed all women to be children in need of male guidance) out of falling for the Serpent's rhetoric. Failing that, he would have saved the day by smashing the Serpent with a rock.This novel is the worst bit of drivel in a ghastly trio of what are generally classified as science fiction novels.In this thinly disguised scrap of plodding evangelism, Lewis demonstrates his remarkable lack of rhetorical skills. When Lewis's reconfigured Serpent(whose brand of evil is more reminiscent of infantile brattiness than of the de Sade or Dahmer or Hitler varieties) appears--between bouts of ripping open innocent little Venusian animals for grins--to be on the verge of convincing the new Eve to "eat" of the new "Tree of Knowledge," the protagonist finds himself incapable of pulling any knowledge of rhotoric from his supposedly brilliant philological mind. Instead he decides to just circumvent all the talking and pummel the Devil to death.My, what an impressive morality Dr. Lewis evinces.
5 Definitely a great book.  I have read it twice, because I liked it so much.  It is fascinating to differentiate it's story with that of Adam and Eve, and imagine how the world might be different, if they hadn't sinned by eating of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.  I'd recommend it to anyone.
5 This is my favorite book of Lewis' Space Trilogy. The world of Perelandra is vividly imagined and so lovingly described that one wants to live there. Into this paradise of floating islands, Lewis plays out a science fictional version of the temptation of Eve with very high stakes for the future of this planet. Lewis' depiction of evil is truly chilling. If you only read one of the books in this trilogy, &#34;Perelandra&#34; is hands down the volume to enter and enjoy.
5 I am a fan of CS Lewis, and this is one of his classic works.  The Space Trilogy is dated (Written during WWII), but is still engrossing and interesting.  The fact that it has endured this long is a testament to the quality of the story.  Out of the Silent Planet and Perelandra are both fairly light reading.  That Hideous Strength is a bit harder to get through, but well worth the time spent reading it.
4 Enough exposure to CS Lewis will bring any reader to the realization that there is much more there than meets the eye. This second book in his sci fi trilogy tackles the beginnings of &#34;humanity&#34; on Venus, and the salvific role played by trilogy protagonist Dr. Ransom. As science fiction goes, the book is OK. As an allegory of the fall of Eden and the avoidance of original sin, it is very well done. Combine the two for a very readable but not amazingly remarkable novel.
5 This is a new copy of book 2 in C S Lewis' space trilogy. I had already read it but wanted to have my own copy to keep. It's perfect and matches my book 1.  Love this whole series.
1 I must really have misunderstood something here. In the first part of the book our hero runs into a bad guy. Although at first fearing a physical attack our hero finds himself in a battle of words with the bad guy. But it goes badly for the hero who simply cannot say a thing right. In fact, the more our hero says the worse his position gets.So our hero walks away to think about this. During a moment of spiritual clarity he realises that he has no chance in a rational discussion with his enemy so our hero decides to kill the enemy. I was rather taken back by this and suspected that our hero would at a latter point in the story be punished for taking this course of action.But it never happens. Instead, we latter see the hero vindicated for his actions. I'm a little surprised by this considering that this book contains so many Christian themes. I'm not sure I can reconcile Christian ideals with this book's message of killing people that you have problems talking with.However this is me making a mountain out of a molehill from something that happens early on. The majority of the book continues from the first book in the trilogy and is very dull. There's little of anything to grab the attention.
5 C. S. Lewis is one of those few writers whose works will be read, studied, and enjoyed 100, 200, 500 years after his death. He is both a fantastic story-teller and a brilliant philosopher--thus, his works deal with both the mundane and the sublime, often at the same time.Perelandra is a good example of Lewis's ability to tell a good story while getting a higher point across. The second installment in his celebrated Space Trilogy (make sure you read &quot;Out of the Silent Planet&quot; first) finds his hero, Ransom, swept away from Earth again on a mysterious mission to the planet Perelandra. Without giving too much of the story away, Ransom finds himself given the seemingly impossible task of preventing evil from Earth from polluting the pristine, unearthly paradise of Perelandra. To carry out this mission, Ransom finds himself grappling, both intellectually and physically, with a force of pure evil.Let the reader beware: Perelandra is written in a more archaic style than we are used to today, and thus may be a difficult read for someone with a short-attention span. For a reader with an expansive imagination and a patient love for detailed descriptive writing, the book is a treasure and will be highly enjoyed.
4 Although placed as book two of Lewis' space trilogy and therefore a novel of space travel it really is not a novel at all, nor is it really a book about traveling to Venus. Lewis is a very cleaver writer and also a very solid Christian. He uses this form of writing to promote Christianity or rather to prove Christianity. At a time when great thinkers said Adam and Eve was myth and could not be taken literally from the Bible Lewis set out to show how it could be shown all the Bible said was true about Adam and Eve. So this book is actually an apologetic about Adam and Eve and Original sin. He simply dressed it in something novel people would find made the religious aspect of his writing easier to swallow. So although his writing can be tedious and seems away from the actually story, it really is the opposite, the story of the the planet and the Paradise he has found himself in and the pure woman he deals with are actually irrelevant to his real intent. His battle with the "Unman" and his position as savoir is the really basis of the story.So here C.S. Lewis has used his genius and Christianity not to tell a tale of space travel but to give his readers a chance to look at another Adam and Eve and what might have really happen in the Garden of Eden.Yet this Eve knew of Christ's coming into our world in fact she knew a secret of his coming we don't understand; as we understand a part she doesn't. So Lewis is portraying other worlds in space that have not fallen to the Devil - yet. And it is here that one must read carefully to really understand Lewis' Christianity.Still one can read this book simply for the excitement of Ransom's exploration of a strange new land and a very pure woman who doesn't understand evil. He explores and learns and struggles knowing he is there for a reason and trying to figure that out.So whether a theological treatise on Original Sin or exploration into space and a new planet, it is a very good story.
3 The first part of this book was interesting with the exploration of the planet. The connection with the woman and Eve and her struggle with temptation was intriguing and challenged me to think through the dynamics of the devil's enticement. The whole thing became rather dull when the king began his litany in praise of God and then went on and on.
5 Same as Silent PlanetIf one can fathom the writing (read that &#34;of an author educated in England in the &#34;20s or so, in an upper class, at well-to-do schools/college(s) and who leaks through his writing, possession of not too much knowledge of the &#34;lower classes and less educated, the Silent Planet is a fun and interesting novel, thoy requiring a bit of slogging thru at times..  Of course he had to depend on fantasy, there was virtually no detailed information about heavenly bodies when the Trilogy was written.  His transposition of old earth legends into a solar system wide family argument was masterful.  He did a thorough and complete writing job.  I wish he had survived to learn of the real facts about the planets..
2 I really enjoyed &#34;Out of the Silent Planet&#34;.  Lewis definitely knew how to sling around his theology, and did a good job of presenting it in the middle of a good sci-fi story in that one.For this one, he seems to have forgotten how to &#34;show don't tell&#34;, and spends WAY too much time with characters just spouting what Lewis should have put into essay format.Its got its moments, but it really shouldn't have been written, and instead should have been a series of essays and papers.
5 A re-write of the myth of Genesis in a well written fantasy (science is somewhat assumed). The style is superb
5 I've never met a C.S. Lewis book I didn't like and this trilogy was no exception.  They can all be read independently but are even better as a series.  Such beautiful imagery, character development, and soul searching.  Just suberb.
4 This is not quite as good as &#34;Out of the Silent Planet&#34;, but still a good read. Worth the time!
4 Perelandra, the second book in C.S. Lewis's trilogy, chronicles the adventures of Dr. Ransom on the planet of Perelandra, otherwise known as Venus. Taking his knowledge and understanding from his adventures in Malacandra (in Out of the Silent Planet) of the spiritual levels of life, human and otherwise, he departs for an assignment on another alien planet. Although he has no details on what he is to do upon reaching the planet, he goes with complete conviction that it is the right course of action and that the Oyarsa, or supreme spirit being of Malacandra, has Ransom's best interests at heart. On Perelandra, Lewis recreates the Biblical story of temptation in the Garden of Eden with Ransom acting as advocate for "Eve," the female figure that inhabits that world. Ransom himself goes through many trials before the story's end.The storytelling in this novel is, of course, superb. The world that Lewis creates is fascinating and thought-provoking. He deftly weaves Biblical story and theology into Ransom's adventures and applies them to the universe and its inhabitants at large. He manages to stretch the readers' minds and wrap them around ideas that are much greater than ourselves. Our God is truly God of the universe. Lewis emphasizes that we do play an important role in God's creation but we could also play just a part within a larger scope of God's creations. The Bible is about humanity and its history with God. Who is to say what other creatures God has created to have relationships with Himself?Of course, Lewis has written this story as fiction. Interestingly, he ends the first book with his character writing it as a fictional account about Ransom's space adventure. This is apparently due to Ransom's insistence that readers would not believe the story as true and would reject it. According to Ransom, if the story were written as a fictional account, those readers who would accept the account as true would see past the fictional facade and see the truth about the story. It can make your head spin if you let it. So in this series, Lewis has written a fictional story. Or do we readers "in the know" know better?Although I really liked this story and am glad to have read it, I have to admit that some passages were a bit hard to get through. Speeches by the physicist character and certain speeches by the "eldila", or spirit beings, can get a bit heady. However, I am still committed to reading the final book in the series, That Hideous Strength, and will post a review on that when read. I do recommend this book to those who are up for a fantastical journey and are willing to work through a few philosophical passages.
5 Definitely the strongest book of the Space Trilogy by CS Lewis, PERELANDRA probably represents the best of Lewis' prose style and the strongest manifestation of his faith, especially his belief that the choices that the common, ordinary &#34;decent chap,&#34; or good man, makes can have earth changing consequences. Elwin Ransom, the main character, even reflects that he was chosen for the monumental task of battling the incarnation of Satan on Perelandra (Venus) for no reason more spectacular than that he could speak the language.Ransom is sent to Venus, and lands on it to discover that it is mostly water, a lush paradise with floating islands, one solid island, and numerous friendly and likable lizards and dolphins that want only to help people. He then meets the Eve of Perelandra, the Lady, who is human (albeit green) and completely innocent. She is looking for the King. who seems to have gone away or gotten lost. Though she is concerned about this, she has no fear and lives with some part of her self always in the presence of Maledil (Christ).Much of the early part of the narrative is spent showing a sinner (though a nice sinner) conversing and learning about a sinless, innocent person who loves God ardently and without reservation. It's a fascinating read. But their party is crashed by the appearance of Weston, the formerly fascist scientist from the previous novel, who has now embraced all spirituality, to the point that he is now demon possessed. And in short order, the demon becomes the sole manifestation of consciousness in Weston.Ransom finds himself as the third man in the Eden story, as the devil tempts the Lady, appealing to her ethics, her vanity, her reason, and her desires to please God. Again, the resolution that Ransom finds to solve the problem is medieval in its nature, and yet also Christ-like. For everything in the material world is manifestation of the Real world. And Ransom finds that even his body, his fists and his hands, can be put to the use of saving a world from sin.Again, readers looking for cracking good Sci-Fi will be disappointed. PERELANDRA is brilliant SF, science fiction (well, mostly fantasy, really) that gives us a stage to consider great matters. The book is enlightening as we watch the tempting of the Lady. It is Lewis at his best: imaginative, inventive, and passionate about Christian truth.
5 Lewis describes a beautiful and pristine world that's on the bubble. I await the reading of the third in the trilogy. It has been 50 years since I read them and I want to see if they're still wonderful.
4 While I agree with the review that this book may not be true Science Fiction, but should be considered Fantasy, I still enjoyed this book. The idea of visiting a world before the introduction of sin into it fascinates me. The book is a great followup to "Out of the Silent Planet", where we learn of the rebellion of Thulcandra, or Earth. Here we have the attempt of Satan to destroy the Edenic planet of Perelandra, and ruin another planet of God's creation. The debates between Weston, Ransom, and the Queen of Perelandra are thought provoking. A few passages even gave me the creeps - seeing the destructiveness of evil compared to the beauty of perfection. This book will not disappoint - unless you are looking for it to be a Hard Sci-Fi novel.
4 Lewis continues strongly the work he began in "Out of the Silent Planet."  This volume contains even more overt morality and spiritual content than its predecessor.  In this book, Lewis crafts a masterful tale of good and evil, human nature, and the reality of the unseen world.  Lewis' rich imagination shines brightly in this thought-provoking story that will raise as many questions as it answers.  It is longer than "Silent Planet," and the story does in fact seem stretched thin at parts.  However, this minor point is the only criticism that I have.  This is a remarkable work that deserves its acclaim.  Highly recommended.
5 When I say 'all,' I am merely referring to the antecedent and latter of the three books that compose Lewis' famed 'Space Trilogy.' I had never considered myself to be a fan of science fiction; however, as I am a fan of Lewis, it was nearly obligatory that I read his famous 'Space Trilogy.' I found myself approaching the first book, 'Out of the Silent Planet,' with a marginal amount of reluctance. But, as I ventured further and further into the core of the book, my heart instantly grew fond of the ever-mesmerising style which has made Lewis a master of the pen. Although very impressed and delighted with 'Planet,' what awaited me within the pages of 'Perelandra' was nothing short of literary bliss. Writing himself into the story as a friend of Dr. Elwin Ransom, Lewis captivates his audience after mere pages as he travels to Ransom's own home. What commences after he arrives is perhaps Lewis' most beautiful work in print. As Dr. Ransom travels to a second distant planet, Perelandra, we (the audience) are assaulted with pellucid imagary and chilling realities that are not easily shaken after the last page is turned. 'Perelandra' is a world of fantasy; a world of fantasy which personafies the struggle of good and evil and offers a lucid and tangible potrayal of the Fall of Man. A MUST read for any science-fiction or Lewis connoisseur. A thrilling book and a truly delightful read!
5 CS Lewis proves his genius in this adult fiction book. I am in awe of the way that he was able to share his ideas of theology on a level unparalleled to anything I've read before. This is a must!!!!
5 Lewis is always my hero. This work addresses the nature of good and evil. The science - after 60+ years - is wrong, but the theology is powerful. Lewis gets the good-evil decision dead right. I read this every year or two.
5 Lewis was a master at keeping the reader engaged and keeping the plot flowing. This work is tense and relevant, easily my favorite of from the trilogy, although Out of the Silent Planet is a close second.
5 A &#34;soft&#34; space fantasy, and a good read for all ages.  Well written and engaging.  I would recommend this (the first of a trilogy) to anyone.  Each book of the trilogy is readable as it's own unit, but together they make a wonderful journey by a great author.
5 C.S. Lewis's Space Trilogy is easily one of the best series I've ever read, and while each volume is so strong that it's difficult to choose the best, Perelandra, the second book, builds well on the foundation laid by Out of the Silent Planet and, in the end, outshines the final book, That Hideous Strength.The story begins as Lewis, writing himself into his own story, arrives in the English countryside to visit his old friend Dr. Ransom, with whom he has been corresponding about Ransom's strange journey to Mars, chronicled in the first book of the series. When Lewis arrives, Ransom reveals that the eldils--angelic creatures bound to different planets--of Mars have continuously visited him since his return to Earth, and that he is to leave on another journey that very night. Boxed up in an otherworldly, coffin-like capsule, Ransom is whisked away and doesn't return for over a year. When he does, he narrates his story through Lewis.Perelandra is the actual name of what we call the planet Venus, and when Ransom crashes through the dense, cloudy atmosphere he finds himself in a world of nothing but ocean, where floating islands of matted plants drift along, providing a place for rest and sleep. There, he meets the Queen of Venus, a green-skinned, naked woman apparently innocent of all knowledge except that told directly to her by Maleldil, or God. She knows the animals and their names, that her husband, the King, is somewhere on the same planet, and that Maleldil has forbidden them both to spend the night on solid land.Ransom decides that he has been brought to a new Eden, but for what purpose? His question is answered when a familiar-looking spaceship lands on Perelandra and Dr. Weston, the Nietzschean nemesis of Out of the Silent Planet, rows ashore. Weston soon plays host to a devilish tempter and Ransom's duty becomes clear--he must prevent this Eden's fall.Perelandra is a tour de force for C.S. Lewis. All of his skills are on display and sharply focused--the beautifully-drawn world, the deep resonance of his message and theme, and even the wry, good-natured humor that underlies so much of his work. And the work is far deeper than most scientific or theological fiction--parallels to his own works, such as The Screwtape Letters, and works like Paradise Lost and The Divine Comedy abound. Those to Paradise Lost are perhaps the most pointed, as Lewis dethrones Milton's concept of a high, stately Satan and replaces it with the far more likely childish, vindictive devil that inhabits Weston.The Space Trilogy is very loosely constructed, which means that any one of the books can be read as either part of the series or as stand-alone entertainment. It may not be necessary to read Out of the Silent Planet prior to this novel, but I'd recommend it and, if you choose not to, you'll want to once you've finished Perelandra. You won't be disappointed.Highly recommended.
5 The second in Lewis' Space Trilogy, Perelandra tells the story of Dr. Ransom's journey to Venus and back again. This sci-fi adventure is a theological meditation on sin and temptation. In many ways it's a re-telling of the first three chapters of Genesis, with a twist. What would it be like if the world were unspoiled, if sin had never entered in, if the first parents had resisted the serpent's temptations? In Perelandra Ransom is sent to young world to help the first woman battle against the temptations of the Evil One.I highly recommend this book. Easily the best in the trilogy, and I rank Perelandra among Lewis' best books (along with Mere Christianity, 'Till We Have Faces, The Screwtape Letters, and The Magician's Nephew).Read it if you have a pulse. (And especially if you want to think more about the first few chapters of Genesis)
5 In Perelandra, Dr. Ransom continues his interplanetary travels, this time to Venus (Perelandra).  Unlike his previous adventure, this one has him sent intentionally, on a mission.  The sights and sensations that greet Ransom on Perelandra are described with the beautiful imagery characteristic of Lewis's writings.  Floating across the Venetian seas on mobile islands, Ransom encounters one of the two human residents of this shrouded planet.  Soon after his arrival, however, a sinister force arrives on Perelandra in the form of Weston, the scientist from the previous book.  The encounters and conversations following between Weston, Ransom, and the Queen are a fascinating image of what the temptation in the Garden of Eden may have been like.  Also, the discourses given in this portion of the book are deeply thought-provoking.  For these reasons and for the excellent suspense, I highly recommend Perelandra.
4 This is the second of three series that is not-so-well-known but a must-read of the CS Lewis collection.  As in the first of the three, CS Lewis tells the Christian redemption story again through the narrative of Ransom and the characters on the second planet he visits, Perelandra. Personally I found it little slow-moving, but the highlight was when the main character has an epiphany and states, "I am Ransom," realizing he is the messiah figure sent to redeem this planet from the stain and spread of an evil force.  After this the book quickly wraps things up leaving the reader with a most beautiful ending.
5 This was a gift for a grandson who is currently readingthe entire trilogy of the books. He says it is great.
4 Perelandra is the second volume of C.S. Lewis's SPACE TRILOGY and I liked it even better than Out of the Silent Planet, its predecessor. Cambridge professor Dr. Elwin Ransom is back on Earth and has told his friend Lewis about the adventures he had on the planet Mars and the supernatural beings he met there. When Ransom explains that there's an epic battle between good and evil, that the planet Venus is about to play an important part, and that he's been called to Venus to do some unknown task, Lewis begins to worry about his friend. Yet he decides to help him get to Venus anyway, so Ransom goes and eventually returns to tell his tale, which Lewis has transcribed for us.Venus is gorgeous -- a lush conglomerate of archipelagos where the land floats on top of the water, so that walking on it is like walking on a waterbed. The sky is full of stunning colors that Ransom has never seen before; exotic trees delight the eye and yield delicious fruit. Other than the strange but friendly animals, Ransom seems to be alone in this world -- until he sees a beautiful naked woman waving from a neighboring island. When he finally meets her, he discovers that evil lurks in this seemingly perfect world.If you were able to ignore the Christian allegory in Out of the Silent Planet, you won't be able to do so in Perelandra -- it's a parallel version of humanity's awakening in the Garden of Eden and Eve's temptation to sin. Evil is trying to gain a foothold and Ransom suddenly realizes what it would mean to bring "the knowledge of good and evil" into a sinless paradise. Ransom discovers that the Biblical admonition to resist temptation may be a spiritual truth on Earth, but at this time on Venus it's a real physical battle and he has been sent to fight it, both with words and fists.C.S. Lewis, a lover of words and mythology, writes beautifully about the alien paradise of Venus and the possibility that what is myth in one world might be truth in another. He also has much to say about good and evil, sin and obedience, madness and sanity, loneliness and companionship, science and the supernatural, predestination and free will, the nature of God and man, and humanity's purpose in the universe. Some readers will accuse Lewis of preachiness, I'm sure, and that's something that usually annoys me, but though Ransom's introspections go on a little too long, I found it impossible to resist the beauty, logic, and concision of his philosophizing.I listened to Geoffrey Howard narrate Blackstone Audio's version of Perelandra which is just under 8 hours long. Mr. Howard narrates rather than performs the story, which I think is suitable. I'll certainly be listening to him read the concluding volume: That Hideous Strength.Originally posted at FanLit.
4 Perelandra, published in 1943 is the second work of a trilogy by the father of Christian Science Fiction, C. S. Lewis.  The first story in the trilogy, Out of the Silent Planet, was published in 1938, and the set concludes with That Hideous Strength, released in 1945.Lewis is the author of many novels including, The Lion, The Witch and the Wardrobe, and the other Narnia stories as well as non-fiction works including Mere Christianity, The Abolition of Man and A Grief Observed.  Lewis was a close friend of J. R. R. Tolkien, the author of The Lord of the Rings.  Both were professors at Oxford University and members of an informal literary group called The Inklings.The science part of the story is largely dated.  In this book Lewis largely avoids the issue of space flight having the protagonist, Elwin Ransom, unconscious during the trip to Venus.  In the novel Venus is ocean paradise not the dry hellish world we now know it to be.  The writing style is also somewhat dated, being told in narrative and containing much more introspection, exposition, and character discussion than is done in modern literature.  In all of his fiction works Lewis uses allegory to teach Christianity.In the story Elwin Ransom, the protagonist, is sent by Oyarsa, the angel who governs Mars, to Perelandra, the planet we know as Venus.  While the first book, Out of the Silent Planet, was an adventure story with allegory, Perelandra is more of a philosophical discussion within an adventure.  The story is an examination of the fall of man and, in part, Lewis' answer to the John Milton's Paradise Lost and parallels to Dante's journey in The Divine Comedy.I rate this book four-star only in the context of Lewis' overall excellent writing.  This story is less of an adventure, a slower pace and much more allegory.Recommendation:  Christians interested in science fiction should read all three works of this trilogy both for edification and entertainment.  They remain, overall, five-star stories.Kyle Pratt
5 This was the first in the so called 'Space Trilogy' that I read. I got it from a library where they were selling a lot of their older books. I was at first quite lost (I was about thirteen then), and put the book away after the first chapter and forgot about it for a long time. Then I picked it up again, and was completely drawn into the story. This is definately not science fiction. Ransom, the main character, arrives in a coffin sort of thing sent by Oyarsa (an archangel sort of being). The descriptions of Peralandra (the planet Venus) are breathtaking and lovely. The way he describes a certain kind of fruit which Ransom discovers, and the effects it had on him, are beautiful. But the best part of the whole book is when Ransom is debating with the body of Weston, a scientist who came to Peralandra a short time after Ransom arrived. Weston somehow called the/a devil into him, and so Ransom ultimately ends up debating with a devil. It is really good how he shows that the devil can often use the truth against us, when it is used out of context or twisted. I highly reccomend this, although to a non-Christian it may make little sense and end up boring them. I have now read it three times, and still enjoy it every time.
5 There are so many great things about this book, as with all Lewis's books. I think everyone should read them all, and this one is great especially if you liked Out of the Silent Planet.
4 Lewis declares this not to be an allegory, but if you have any knowledge of the Biblical account of Creation and the Fall of man, you cannot help but draw parallels.A fiction of a giant "what if" in the Christian world, that would be enjoyable for anyone to read, Christian or not.Thought-provoking if you want it to be, pleasant fiction still if you aren't interested in putting deep thoughts into it.It was fascinating and hard to put down. Highly recommend.
5 Awe inspiring, beautiful, clear, logical and emotional.  Magnificent praise of God!  Words are inadequate to describe its effect on me when I first read it and when I read it again -- and I've lost track of how many times I've reread it.  Read it!  I can't recommend it enough.
4 This, the second volume in Lewis's "Cosmic Trilogy", is very likely his best book.  That is in part because he manages to deal with Big Questions in (especially for Lewis) a low-key way; he presents difficult problems and gives reasoned answers, all in the context of a suspenseful tale--suspenseful even with little true action, the tension being almost entirely moral.Best of all, Lewis's usual penchant for Very Very Obvious wrapups is here modulated to, in effect, a song of praise, so that it does not bemean the tale itself, nor leave the reader feeling she has been treated like a half-wit, the taste Lewis all too often leaves in the mouth.This is an unusual novel, an interesting one, a complex and deep one, and a rewarding one.  (It contains a scene that is perhaps the best and most horrifying portrayal in all literature of true Evil seen face to face.)
5 Perelandra by C.S. Lewis is the story of a man named Ransom and his travels in the world of Venus. Ransom is a scientist who in the previous novel was kidnapped and brought to Malacandra, or Mars. In this novel, he has allied himself with the great Maleldil, creator of all, and is sent to Perelandra for reasons he does not know. When he lands there in his novelty white coffin, courtesy of Maleldil, he discovers a strange world fit for the goddess of love. He is guided by an unseen hand on this world and meets a woman called the Lady, who understands nothing of evil, and even disappointments like meeting Ransom instead of her lost mate the King are welcomed because she may learn from them. Basically, everything around her pleases her to a greater or lesser degree. While Ransom and the Lady are learning from eachother, they see a black spaceship that plummets into the sea. This heralds the arrival of all evil on Perelandra, and Ransom discovers his purpose: to hold it back and destroy it in whatever way he can.The themes in this book are taken straight out of the Christian Bible, and surprisingly work within the setting of Science fiction. This isn't a retelling of the Garden of Eden, it's more like a second chapter to it. Perelandra was tempted but had someone there to help it, and therefore comes out of it even more beautiful than it was before.C.S. Lewis creates an absolutely beautiful, perfect world that could be destroyed in an instant by evil. This apprehension puts people on the edges of their seats, and gives a sense of urgency to the novel. Lewis manages to incorporate fear of the dark, of being followed by strange things and noises, but he also puts in a feeling of safeness and calmness. Overall, this deserves 5 stars.
5 I love everything Lewis wrote, and this is one of my top favorites. It is worth rereading (slowly, to savor both the fun sci-fi aspects and the deep spiritual aspects) more than once, or twice. It helped me spiritually each time I read it (three times now), plus I enjoyed it so much. The cover art is not appropriate, since it shows snakelike, unpleasant-looking creatures whereas Perelandra had only beautiful creatures, being an unfallen Paradise of a world.
5 What would have happened if Eve hadn't listened to Satan?  What would the world be like if Adam had stepped up and defended her from her tempter?  Enter Professor Ransom, an aging English professor who is sent to Venus to do just that.  I love this story because it proves you don't have to be the &#34;hunky hero&#34; type to get the job done.  Sometimes your're nearsighted and cerebral but called upon to do great deeds.
5 I was absolutely captivated with this book. Don't let the very slow beginning of Ransom's friend arriving at the cottage deter you from this book; once Ransom enters the story then things really pick up. (I usually dislike slow-starting books, but I made sure to stick through this one!)I've read some of Lewis' other books, including The Screwtape Letters. Perelandra reminded me a lot about the Letters with the topics of temptation, sin, disobedience, etc. I was riveted throughout Ransom's and Weston's "battle".CS Lewis is an amazing writer. If you had to read only one book of his, I would probably say that Perelandra should be "that" book.
4 I was riveted to the first episode of Space Trilogy (Out of the Silent Planet), so it was with great anticipation that I proceeded into Perelandra. The hardcover version has excellent binding and is of good quality.In this tale Elwin Ransom is summoned to Venus, which is in a pre-fallen Edenic state. The Devil follows, possessing the body of Ransom's deceased foe Weston in order to tempt the Venereal Eve. It becomes clear to Elwin that he must act to thwart Original Sin on Venus.The author is a well-known Christian, and this tale builds on basic themes of Christianity.I found the book to be more philosophical in nature, compared to Out of the Silent Planet, but still a very good tale.There are so few traditional science fiction details that the book doesn't read like a work of that genre (no space battles, no details on hyperdrive or warp technology). Instead it is an adventure, that unfolds to show the main character (and the reader, who easily slips into the protagonist's shoes) hidden secrets of the universe.Very thought provoking, and a must read for any Christian.
5 One of C.S. Lewis' lesser known series but definitely well worth the read, and the book was in great condition.
5 Great story telling by C.S. Lewis. The man had an immense understanding of story telling, language and how to communicate. You don't have to be a sci-fi buff to enjoy this story.
3 I have never read any of C.S. Lewis' writing before. He brings interest ritght from the start and he knows how to describe things so you can visualize them.
5 I've yet to read anything by this man that i didn't love.  The Great Divorce is still one of my favorites from him.
5 That wacky C.S. Lewis, thinking he can stick Christian ideals andbeliefs into a science-fictional setting.  What gall.  You know whatthe funny part is?  It actually works, which is something of anaccomplishment in itself.  Y'see, this story continues from the lastbook (Out of the Silent Planet) where Dr Ransom is sent to&quot;Perelandra&quot; (Venus) where he finds a fantastic unspoiledparadise populated by strange and quite friendly animals . . . and asingle green woman who seems rather innocent of the world (psst. . . think &quot;Eve&quot;).  No sooner do they get to chatting thensomeone shows up who might just be the agent of the Devil, trying totempt &quot;Eve&quot; into disobeying &quot;God&quot; (not called Godbut you get the idea) and Ransom has to figure out how to put a stopto someone who is not only smarter, older and has lots more experienceat this, but managed to do it right once before.  Arguments ensue.People who have read Lewis have complained to me that he tends to&quot;preach&quot; a bit too much, and I can see from this novel wherepeople get that idea from.  But really it isn't that much of aproblem, for every couple pages of theological argument (cloaked in SFterms, really) he slathers the page full of absolutely beautifuldescriptions of the planet, you can get lost sorting through all ofthem.  He really thought this place out and while it's nowhere nearthe &quot;real&quot; Venus, my first rule of writing is chuck scienceif it gets in the way of a good story.  And in the end you have a goodstory, it's good versus evil in the classic sense, yes, it's from a&quot;Christian&quot; perspective but it mostly boils down to&quot;Devil=bad&quot;.  There's plenty of other stuff to recommend aswell, the fight between Ransom and the Devil's advocate (couldn'tresist . . . sorry) is one of the most brutal fights I've ever seen ina old style SF novel and Lewis manages to contrast the sheer brutalityof the fight with the beauty and splendor of the planet around them.By the end it gets a bit on the metaphysical end of things, but all inall an entertaining romp.  Be prepared if you read the first book andwere expecting more of the same, this is a different tone entirely,more philosophical and searching and definitely more than just ascience fictional retelling of the Garden of Eden story.
5 Such a profound and deep tale. Weaving fiction with biblical truths. It made me think of "man" and all his triumphs and shortcomings in a new light.
5 [Throughout the years, I have written a number of reviews that have never been published online on Amazon. These writings comprise two types of reviews: unfinished reviews, abandoned during various stages of composition, and completed reviews that for life reasons were never posted. Of the later type, back in September 2001 I wrote a cache of work, a full sixteen reviews of several different C. S. Lewis books which have never been released. I am publishing these reviews now for the first time, over a decade after they were initially written.  Mike London 10-3-2012]"Perelandra", the second novel in the, if you believe the blurbs, celebrated "Space Trilogy", stands as Lewis's on contribution to the form of the modern epic and also his tribute to John Milton, the author of "Paradise Lost". There are a plethora of epic references, and I agree that science fiction is the inheritor of the epic tradition. Much of what Lewis accomplishes through "Perelandra" is from the epic tradition. There are several elements in "Perelandra" that not only salutes "Paradise Lost" but also throws the whole epic tradition in a favourable light. Here are some of the numerous ways in which "Perelandra" harkens back to the epic tradition.Like most epics, the story begins in a crucial point in the story, with Lewis himself attempting to make it to Ransom's house under severe attack. There are generally catalogs in epics, and this is played as dark humour in Perelandra, as Ransom accounts what each individual has to fight with (essentially two middle aged bodies). There are then descriptions of what these are. Then, to rally himself up, Ransom makes a speech to himself for encouragement. Weston becomes the Unman, a very common tradition of giving a name to a character based on the description of that character. One of the best developed portion of Perelandra's similarities with the epic is the very vivid description of the Underworld which is given in the last section of Perelandra. In it, we get the quite hellish descriptions of the subterranean world of Perelandra, which we had no idea existed. Lewis also gives us his reoccurring theme of privacy and the fact that we do not know everything, with the two thrones and the sea people who appear and then disappear very mysteriously.(These reviews covered all seven books of "The Chronciles of Narnia", the three novels of "The Space Trilogy", "The Abolition of Man", "The Four Loves", "A Preface to Paradise Lost", a revised version of my 2000 review of "Till We Have Faces", "Surprised By Joy", and "The Screwtape Letters". I have published newly written reviews of "The Space Trilogy" composed long after I wrote the three original reviews of Lewis's science fiction.)
4 Book 2 in the Space Trilogy, Perelandra, continues the adventures of protagonist Elwin Ransom. This book has such a different tone than the first in the series. I felt the theological overtones of Out of the Silent Planet were fairly subtle. Ransom was meeting members of the races on Mars, learning their language, exploring their culture. The language barrier was huge, and for much of the book I felt I was stumbling along with Ransom, learning words which had unfamiliar sounds and expressing major concepts in metaphors. In Perelandra, which takes place on Venus, the struggle to communicate has eased up immensely. Actually, Ransom has to simplify much of what he says because the "Eve" figure is so innocent, never having encountered sin or evil. This is basically a retelling and expansion of the Garden of Eden. Perelandra is paradise, described in stunning (and lengthy!) detail. Bubble trees, singing winds, silver flowers, mermaids, an ocean "dotted with islands in every direction, rising and falling with the swell." It is Ransom's mission to try to stop the Fall from occurring on this planet, complete with a debate and then a battle between good and evil. As Ransom begins to recognize evil, there were moments I found truly chilling.Christianity is completely unveiled in Perelandra; there are numerous references, and the characters' debates and discussions often get heavy. There was so much to think about! I could reread this book endless times and find new threads of thought and insight.Out of the Silent Planet was good, but I didn't have that "ready to devour the rest of the series" feeling after finishing it. I enjoyed Perelandra much more, and I'm looking forward to reading the third and final book.
4 What if other planets within our galaxy contained intelligent life? And not only that, but what if those planets were part of a war against largely unseen beings, some of which had infiltrated Earth without our knowing it?  This is part of the premise of Lewis's space trilogy, and this second book of his space trilogy continues to follow that theme.The story follows Dr. Ransom as he is sent to the planet Venus (known as Perelandra to the other space-faring beings) to be it's protector.  He arrives on the planet, knowing nothing about it, including the details of what he should be doing.  And as he is disoriented by his initial arrival, we travel with him both geographically and philosophically as he determines the purpose of his trip.A warning to potential readers: compared to Lewis's first book in the series "Out of the Silent Planet", this book feels far more philosophical.  While a large part of the first book involved Ransom running for his life, the latter half of this book largely involves a battle of minds and wills.  If you're not used to following those types of conversations (or they just don't interest you), it's possible you won't enjoy this book as much.  I'll confess to getting lost a few times myself, but I'll admit that I've never felt as much in suspense by the mere idea of someone making a correct decisions as I have with this book.Also to Lewis's credit, his descriptions of the planet are incredibly detailed while also being fairly dreamlike.  At times, I felt disappointed by today's discoveries of science because after reading the first two books, I like his idea of what Venus and Mars could be like than the reality of what they are. This is a testament to the fantastical ideas and descriptions he puts forth of what other planets could be like.One complaint that could be leveled against the book is that a plot that largely starts in a philosophical manner ends in a way that is largely physical.  This kind of thing has led to a lot of terrible science fiction books and movies that started with promise and ended with brute force.  In this case, I believe it works because the thought process to the end is laid out well, but it might catch you off guard if you expect the battle of the mind to end there.
5 Take out the Christian allegories and you still have a superb novel. . .include them and you have a spiritual masterpiece of almost biblical proportions. Perelandra cuts to the quick; atheists, evolutionists and  anti-Christians won't be able to endure it.If you want to understand  the Garden of Eden from our own Bible, read Perelandra. Lewis understood  it. This book is light years ahead of &quot;Out Of The Silent Planet&quot;,  though Silent Planet created an adequate preface to the trilogy.
3 Unlike the first volume of the trilogy that begins with &quot;Out of the Silent Planet&quot; and concludes in &quot;That Hideous Strength,&quot; this book is a slow mover. The climactic battle, once it comes, has plenty of blood and terror; but getting there takes some patience. Its depiction of evil's chilling, banal brutality also takes a strong stomach.With that said, though, Lewis describes the innocent world we know as Venus with detail and poetry. I fear his view of women and their proper role belongs to my grandfather's generation; but that I have to forgive, because - after all - they fought in the same war.Worth reading in order to get from Book One to Book Three.
5 I purchased all three books at the same time so I was able to go right into the second book with the first book still fresh in my mind. The basic theme continued into the second book making it much more exciting. I plan to read many more C.S. Lewis books before I'm through.
5 It's an unfortunate fact that most fantasy novels are set in the modern-day United States.  Of course the characters in a typical fantasy novel may carry swords rather than guns and they may ride horses rather than cars, but those are externalities.  Where these novels fail is in crafting the characters' minds.  They think, speak, act, react, plan, and plot in ways that are entirely based on the modern-day world of the authors.  And that is what's unfortunate, because fantasy should allow expansive and imaginative worlds on all levels, not just among minor details."Perelandra" does that.  It is, in the literal sense, the second novel of the Space Trilogy, and it sends Dr. Ransom to the planet Perelandra, also known as Venus.  The Planet itself is hauntingly beautiful.  Lewis' attention to the details of color, sound, smell, and feeling bring this world alive as few others have ever been.  His bestiary of alien animals and arboretum of plants has no comparison that I know of, except perhaps in the works of Jack Vance.  His language flows melodiously throughout the entire book.That, however, is only the minor achievement.  The major achievement is the story, the retelling of the events in Eden, set in an alien landscape.  Obviously this could have gone quite badly, could easily have become heavy-handed or dull.  Instead Lewis manages it with seeming ease, and even makes the dramatic finale fit well with the flow of the entire book.  The only misstep is at the very end, with an attempt to meld together mythology and science fiction that doesn't quite fit.  Overall, though, "Perelandra" is a masterpiece that I can recommend without the slightest hesitation.
3 This book is basically the story of Adam and Eve, but on Venus - and our hero, Ransom, is brought to Venus to prevent the &#34;fall&#34;. The serpent character (the physicist from book 1), possessed by Evil, tries every sneaky and underhanded way it can think of to convince the woman to disobey the one commandment she has been given, and Ransom has to find a way to come between them and save her. CS Lewis' description of a completely different world is incredibly imaginative, and his description of all the ways she is tempted is very insightful and fascinating. Still, for me, the story bogged down in all the description, and the endless debating, and took a long time to get to the resolution (a resolution which seemed very simple but was difficult for Ransom to realize). I'm sure this novel has depths of symbolism and allegory that I'm not deep enough to appreciate, but I did appreciate the obvious ones. I'm interested in where he's going with the 3rd installment of the trilogy.
5 I do have a complaint about this book, which were it not incredible later, would lower my rating.  Perelandra starts off slow.  It is fairly slow through the book, but there isn't enough material to justify the slowness at the beginning of the book, but the later chapters... wow.Ok, that being said, I want to sing the praises of this book.  Dr. Ransom goes to Perelandra (Venus) for his second adventure, having gone to Mars in the first book.  On Venus, Ransom finds that the world is young.  Venus is in a state that is essentially the same as the garden of Eden.  Lewis has some fun with the setting, and with the seemingly arbitrary command.But the real point of the story is that evil tries to enter the paradise of Perelandra, and Ransom is there.  This book almost reads as if it were Lewis' answer to the question, "what would you have done, if you were in the garden, to keep Eve from sinning?"  The entire account of that conflict, the philosophy as well as the physical aspects of it, is my favorite part of any book I have ever read.  Read this book.  I want to emphasizes it to guys all the more.  Ransom, in all his imperfections, shows himself a man throughout the pages of this book.  His courage comes from a self-doubting heart, but he does what he must do.  This book was excellent.
5 Even our current &#34;scientific&#34; knowledge of our closes planets cannot dim the bright colors and bewildering landscapes described in this book.  Lewis presents a closed-in, hidden paradise that harbors a deeper, darker underworld, threatened by the invading humans.
5 This is the second volume of Lewis's space trilogy (begun in Out Of The Silent Planet and ending with That Hideous Strength) and an excellent one it is.  People talk about the books being readable independently, but you'll get more out of them if you read them in their proper order.  Lewis has a particular knack for imagining and describing how things would look to a person who had never seen them before, what in effect a "pure experience" would be like the moment when the sensation is trying to become perception, and a knack as well for reaching between soul and spirit to describe the inner subtle workings of human nature at a level most of us are normally unaware of until someone like Lewis describes them to us.  The result makes for enjoyable reading, particularly in the context of a trip to another planet.  Here Dr. Ransom is sent off by heavenly powers to Venus where another earthman, possessed of some diabolic force, is intent on bringing about the downfall of that race.  Ransom is there to stop it.  The story of the Original Sin is retold with imaginative variety, and the book has a particularly and undeniably Christian bent which may well affect the reaction of non-Christian readers.  Lewis does a lot of philosophizing in this text, but not as much as in the final volume, That Hideous Strength, which is for that reason and others the weakest of the three.  But here he is still at the height of his powers and in control of them.
2 Through the years I&#8217;d heard of this book, and the idea of a story paralleling the Garden of Eden story intrigued me so I finally decided to read it. Unfortunately I didn&#8217;t care for it. I guess I expected something beyond the idea that the point of the temptation was simply to see if Adam and Eve would obey God. But more than this, I was disappointed that the man serving as the serpent had to die, become a demon and then be brutally killed in order to save the world. We all must demonize those we disagree with in order to make us feel righteous in killing them. Some might praise this as standing up for their values but terrorists hold this same unfortunate attitude. There must be some difference between the good person and the bad person other than sharing the belief that they are right and the other is wrong, while blaming the other for being unable to see. No matter what is written or believed, it seems that is our original sin.
4 In this installment of the Space Trilogy, we see the central character, Ransom, sent to the planet Perelandra by the eldila. Whereas &quot;Out of the Silent Planet&quot; relates the story of Ransom's self-discovery, &quot;Perelandra&quot; is the story of Ransom discovering his purpose for being sent to Perelandra. Perelandra is a young planet, and Ransom finds himself in the middle of an innocent world with only two humans. It is a wonderful tale of how this version of the Garden of Eden unfolds. There is a good balance of action and adventure with reason and beauty.The only knock I have against the story is in how it is organized. The beginning is in chapter 1 while the end is in chapter 2. The remainder of the book gives the detailed account of what happened in chapter 2. I found this somewhat odd, and it takes some of the tension/suspense out of the story because you already know how it ends.
4 Was written to the benefit of the largest reading audience , however it had far greater insight and allegorical content than many would readily appreciate.
5 You can read the other reviews for a plot summary. Let me add that I've read this great novel many times and do not see it as an allegory. From Lewis's other works and letters, I think it's clear that he meant this to be a "what if?" series. What if space travel is possible--what will we find out there? His answer is that earth (the Silent Planet) is separated from the rest of the universe by sin. What if someone from earth goes to Venus, a planet that knows no sin? What if Satan (the bent angel) tries to achieve what he achieved on earth--the seduction of the planet's residents? How would this all play out?If Lewis had wanted to write an allegory, he could've done that: see "The Pilgrim's Regress". Instead he wrote an engaging, exciting story of good vs. evil--happening all over again.
4 This is the second book of Lewis' Space Trilogy and in some ways I found it to be better than the first.  Lewis seems more comfortable  with the character of Dr. Ransom, and his scenic descriptions are astounding.The overt allusions to the story of Creation are sometimes a bit cloying, as if he's beating you over the head with it, but the writing is so fluid and beautiful, one can forgive his soapbox moments.As with Out of the Silent Planet, Lewis creates a world that is imaginative, whimsical, yet real enough to be believed.  The author knows for what our hearts yearn, and his Eden-like setting on the planet "Perelandra" touches the space traveler in us all.
4 What I liked was the answer to questions from the first book.  The fight between good and evil.  The manipulation that the unman did to the queen.  The Importance of Rosman being sent to Venus along with Watson.  I had a little difficulty following the story line when Rosman returned earlier in the book.  Too wordy, descriptive.  I liked the storyline of his travels and adventures on Venus.  I would recommend this to anyone who questions and where we would be if Adam and eve had not eaten of the Apple.
5 Perelandra continues the travels of Ransom. Unlike his accidental journey to Mars in Out of the Silent Planet, this time he is sent by angels to prevent the Adversary from sullying an incorrupt planet, a world newly endowed with life--Venus, or as the inhabitants call it, Perelandra. C.S. Lewis writes with his well-known descriptive power, portraying a warm, tropical world of great oceans and floating islands. Here, Ransom must keep those on Perelandra from falling for the temptations of pride, rebellion, self-pity, vanity, selfish ambition, and discontent.In this marvelous work, C.S. Lewis thrills with one of his greatest books. You will be drawn into Perelandra, and yet will not be bored with endless scenery descriptions or the like. The beauty of his writing is that he unveils a world in a few words, words filled with depth and meaning, and which add to the morals of the story. There is not a letter unconnected to the plot. It is a matchless work of science fiction/fantasy literature.Ryan RobledoAuthor of the Aelnathan:
3 I thought this book was a good example of CS Lewis's thought and world view, but as a story I just didn't enjoy it as much as "Out of the Silent Planet".  This one was much more overtly "religious" - I don't think it's a spoiler to say we are dealing quite explicitly with "The Fall".  That's potentially a very interesting topic for a story like this.  However at times I felt like I was reading the book of Job - long series of intellectual conversations back and forth.  And we have our primordial Lady, who is naive to concepts like sin and death, and thus some of the conversations become very circuitous and convoluted in just trying to explain these things.  It's just not light reading, and some parts like this drag a bit.  Similarly toward the end, we have what I would characterize as Lewis's attempt to produce the world's wordiest litany (the series of "Blessed be he!" speeches).  Put me straight to sleep two nights in a row.One of Lewis's themes here is the crossover between "myth" and "history".  It's a theme Lewis uses elsewhere as well.  Here he really forces the issue.  This story is self-consciously "mythic" but set at a real time in history, and kind of forces the issue that Genesis is also "history" in the same sense.  I think some of this is Lewis self-consciously reacting to the trends in Biblical scholarship starting in the 19th century, which would crassly equate "myth" with "fiction" and "fable".  But here Lewis swings quite a bit farther in the other direction than I expected.Another of Lewis's bugbears is modern astronomy or cosmology which would have a universe so vast and with no center, that humanity becomes insignificant by that vastness, leading to despair.  I don't know, maybe this was a popular reaction more specific to Lewis's own age.  But it was clearly on his mind when he wrote this, particularly the world's wordiest litany that I referred to above.Again Lewis uses the character of Weston to personify other trends he doesn't like.  When Weston first shows up, he's expounding a rather absurd sort of Pantheism or what we might now call "New Age" philosophy.  I don't want to say too much about what happens with Weston, so as not to spoil the story, but it's clear what Lewis is saying that the "New Age" opens oneself to.The story is at its best when Lewis lets his imagination go, and provides vivid and sensual descriptions of this new world - the sights, the sounds, the floating islands upon the stormy seas, the beasts on the land, sea, sky and underground, the tastes and sensations of the fruits.  The story just really slows down for some of these extended "meditations" in the form of long conversations.
5 This is a really wonderful book, in which Ransom flies to Venus to intervene on behalf of a multi-colored Adam and Eve.  It is very fun the way that Lewis uncovers details in the story, as Ransom proceeds with astonishment is his strangely deliberate and chaste way. An odd and very English character.But the writing is absolutely wonderful, and some of the scenes quite unforgettable - there is one where he barely escapes a battle for his life, but winds up unknowingly in a pitch-black cave, waiting in frustration for the sun to rise.  He then has to feel his way out, encountering a large insect-like creature he observes by the light of a lava flow.  I simply loved that image, which makes this a genuine masterpiece of scifi in my opinion.  As ever, it is full of surprizes.Warmly recommended for true scifi fans.
5 This is an awesome book. Anyone who enjoys science fiction will love it because it uses so much of the imagination. C.S. Lewis is in my opinion one of the best writers who ever lived.
5 Perelandra is a magnificently documented and narrated story of the beginnings of the new world. The descriptions of the surroundings around the entire planet made me feel as if I were really walking on the islands myself. The book expresses the unbelievable beauty and peace God gave to man, and the horror brought to earth by Satan when he tempted Eve. Now Ransom has been placed with the task of stopping it from happening again to the young inhabitants of Perelandra.The book flys by very fast (I read the last 120 pages in 4 hours). Lewis' talent to mix biblical events into a fictional tale shine through once again. Recommend this to all your friends!Check my other reveiws for great Christian CDs, Books, movies, etc.
4 This is a journey to Venus science fiction fantasy; the second in a space trilogy.  Ransom (Godly) is a scientist sent to Venus (presumably by an angel) for reasons he did not know.  He meets an innocent human-like woman upon arriving.  She is searching for her King, who until Ransom, were the only people on Venus except for the myriad of unusual interactive animals.  Ransom follows her as she makes her way across the floating islands of a water laden planet.  As one progresses you will recognize the parallels to the Garden of Eden/Adam and Eve on earth.  The forbidden fruit is the fixed, immovable land. Perelandra is a wonderful story, better than the first book, "Out of the silent planet".The story is told in first person by Ransom's earth friend.  Ransom comes to the realization of his purpose for being sent to Venus: shortly after his arrival, his earth prot&eacute;g&eacute; Weston (an atheist), lands in a ship, only to by seduced by Satan.  Weston then begins his vigil to confuse and corrupt the woman----she grows "old".  Eventually a long mental and physical battle ensues between Weston and Ransom.  Ransom was sent to stop the corruption, but he was losing the battle; he new he had to kill him.  Venus would keep its innocence.In this novel Lewis asks himself questions, then tries to answer them: on origins, life, and spirituality.  What an amazingly unique mind----there is no equal----surely a gift.Wish you wellScott
5 C.S. Lewis' Perelandra is not really science fiction but more of a fairy tale for grown-ups.  There is no exploration of future science or technology (though, the third book in the trilogy, That Hideous Strength, does explore more traditional themes of science fiction).  The setting of Perelandra is an imagined Venus but could just as easily have been a Narnia-like realm.  What is key for the wider story is an alien world from which humans are separated by a seemingly impassable abyss.One of the main questions posed by Lewis here is what if Adam and Eve were, in some way, given a second chance?  More importantly: What if Adam and Eve were not just met with an agent of evil but also an agent of good, an agent who then desperately sought to persuade the first man and woman not to forsake the word of God.  Lewis also poses the question, What if humans were not the only sentient creatures in the universe?  This is certainly not a new theme in science fiction, but Lewis provides a fresh perspective by addressing it from a Christian perspective.  Lewis questions whether humans might not be just one branch of many within the designs of God.As other reviewers have noted, there is little action in the novel, but the moral tension, the intense theological debates, will grip any reflective reader, whether one is Christian or not.  Indeed, some of the earthly suppositions and theories forwarded by that chilling mouthpiece of Satan, the Un-man, are themselves very compelling.  Lewis' narration of Ransom's subsequent subterranean journeys are likewise suspenseful and offer a haunting glimpse into a vast and alien world.Perelandra is the best book in Lewis' "Space Trilogy" and can be read on its own, though Out of the Silent Planet and That Hideous Strength are still very much worthwhile.
5 If you're reading this, i'm sure you've heard of most of C.S. Lewis's works by now and feel pretty secure in your knowledge of all things Clive Staples.  Then it happens:  someone tells you that Lewis wrote Sci-Fi.  "Science fiction?  Lewis???  is it like Narnia or what?!" you breathlessly exclaim.  You want details...you want specifics...most importantly, you want to read the stories.Here's what you're in for:UNBELIEVABLE depth.  Narnia's allagory is barely puddle deep by comparison.  This is intended for folks who want to think long and hard while they're reading.What WOULD have happened if Eve hadn't eaten the apple at Creation?  Perelandra attempts to answer that question and in the process, teaches us a lot about our own psyche when dealing with the enemy.GREAT description.  In this relatively short book, Lewis packs in all kinds of descriptive detail.  Much more so than the Narnia series.  You can really feel the environment (and the emotional state of Ransom as he progresses through the story).EMOTION.  At least, that's what it produced in me.  I cried over and over again as Lewis masterfully showed how the weakness of humanity is always a prayer away from the Majestic Strength of Jesus Christ.With no shame i confess that i WEPT like a child when i put it down."Out of the Silent Planet" is great, and "That hideous strength" is wonderfully done...but Perelandra is the gem in this series.
5 This is the second book in C.S. Lewis's amazing Space Trilogy.  This book was written as a sequel to the immensely popular Out of the Silent Planet but Lewis also wrote it so that the story can stand on its own. So if you haven't read the first you can start here.This book takes place some time after the first, but we are not sure how long. Ransom has received a summons to Venus, a planet that is just beginning its inhabited life. This planet's `Adam' and `Eve' are on the planet and they must choose to obey God or to reject his law and face a `fall' as has happened on earth.Ransom must face his old foe Weston, and try to save a planet from great evil. Can he navigate this watery planet; can he negotiate the intricacies of human weakness, temptation and corruption? Can he conquer himself and help others to learn obedience?This is a great creation story. Try it - you won't be disappointed.
5 This book is a picture of how temptation tried to destroy a planet, Perelandra, similar to how it happened on Earth.  This book is a  serious page turner.
3 I love Christian fiction, fantasy and C.S. Lewis but I found &#34;Out of the Silent Plant&#34; Volume 1 of the trilogy and Volume 2  &#34;Perelandra&#34; (subject book) hard to get through.  &#34;Perelandra&#34; is a sophisticated Adam and Eve fantasy.  I liked this book much more than the first but liked neither enough to read Volume 3 &#34;The Hideous Strength&#34; which I have already purchased.  Maybe I expected too much given C.S Lewis' powerful &#34;Mere Christianity.&#34; Both books I read are loaded with Biblical types and wisdom but not enough to prompt me to recommend the book.
3 I suppose it was expected, but I had hoped anyway that the second book could somehow be as profound as the first. But no. Just an unsuprising Christian allegory written as naturalistic fantasy. (I cannot call it "science fiction" because there was very little science in it.)True, Lewis asks a question here that perhaps most theologists wouldn't ask: was there another way out of the Garden of Eden?But then he relapses into the Trinity and ties the story up much too neatly.In short, too human, too Christian, nothing new here.
5 This item arrived quickly.  It arrived in excellent condition.  It worked exactly like it was supposed to.  The item met a special need very well.  Thank you Amazon for having it.
4 Over all this is a good read that has a very unique story line. C.S. Lewis does not disappoint with that. I would say that it gets a little wordy and drawn out before reaching the climax, but I would still recommend it.
3 C. S. Lewis' Perelandra is sometimes described as a work of science fiction, but those who read it expecting to find a typical science fiction novel (if there is such a thing as a "typical" sf novel), are likely to be disappointedly surprised.  While the protagonist, Ransom, is indeed transported to the planet Perelandra, otherwise known as Venus, the book is much more one of Christian philosophy than it is of science fiction.  In fact, the entire story is an allegorical retelling of the Garden of Eden myth.The retelling does have a rather intriguing twist in that Ransom is sent to Perelandra to do battle with the evil tempter in an attempt to save this planet's "Eve" from succumbing to his seductions and thereby leading "Adam" to another biblical fall from grace.  This is a decently imaginative approach and affords Lewis copious opportunities to regale the reader with wonderful descriptions of the Perelandrian Garden of Eden.Inasmuch as the characters and assumptions are derived from Lewis' early 20th century Christian philosophy, the book contains several concepts that may be jarring to a more egalitarian 21st century reader.  For example, the Venusian "Adam" is referred to as the King, not as a deity but as the literal ruler of the planet, which assuredly exalts him above "Eve," who is merely his Lady. In numerous passages, both "Adam" and "Eve"are described as superior to all the other animals on the planet, which must bow to their human supremacy.  Humans of Tellus, otherwise known as Earth, are, of course, all sinners as the result of their own failed Garden of Eden experiment.  The Evil One manifests himself in the body of Weston, a physicist whose empiricism rejects notions of religious beliefs. There are more examples, but the simple point is that Christian biblical stories, beliefs and assumptions underlie all of the characters, actions and assumptions in Lewis' novel.As usual, Lewis' use of language is superb, and his descriptive writing is worth studying for the edification of other would-be authors.  I did find two parts of the book somewhat annoying, however.  The first is the dialogue between Ransom and the Un-man, representative of evil, as the Un-man discusses Spirituality and "truth" from his perspective.  Try as I might, I could not follow the Un-man's argument and, indeed, Ransom himself says that he is not sure of the Un-man's meaning.  Perhaps Lewis has intentionally obfuscated the sense of the argument to indicate that arguments from such a source are fallacious and clouded.  The other part comes near the end, while the Eldila, which appear to be angelic entities, expound on the encompassing nature of God.  Their lengthy hyperbolic descriptions and analogies become quite tedious after a while.Would I recommend the book to a potential reader?  That depends entirely on the reader's motivation.  If it is to observe Lewis' generally fine writing skill and technique, then certainly I would recommend spending some time with Perelandra.  If one is interested in exploring an imaginative twist to an old story and seeing what the supposed outcome of an "unfallen" Adam and Eve might have been, then surely the book is worthwhile.  I would not recommend it for someone who is ignorant of Christian mythology, for many references and allusions would be missed without a background knowledge of the biblical story of Man's fall from Grace.  Certainly, I would not suggest it to anyone seeking a "real" science fiction novel, unless, of course, the reader were equally interested in a philosophical look at the nature of good and evil, innocence and sin, and beauty and ugliness, for this theme is paramount throughout Perelandra.  So far as the title I chose for these comments, if it intrigues you, then by all means read the book and think on the symbolic nature of the container that transports Ransom from Tellus to Perelandra and back again!
3 The second in C.S. Lewis "Space Trilogy", following "Out of the Silent Planet", this novel relates the adventures of Ransom on Perelandra, or Venus.  Here he must save an un-fallen Eve from the temptations of the "Un-Man" Weston.  There is some rich description, but not much action, and the real essence of the book is when Weston arrives, becomes the "Un-Man", and wrestles with Ransom for the possession of the "green lady's" (the un-fallen Eve) soul and destiny.  This struggle is in chapters 7 to 15 of the book, the first six chapters being descriptive and bringing Ransom to Venus, the last two chapters being (in my view) protracted and not very necessary.  Not a bad read, but not as engaging or entertaining as the first book "Out of the Silent Planet."
5 When Lewis writes, the idea actually makes sense.The book retells the Eden story, but one that went the right way. I was surprised at a few things in this book, including the eventual relationship between god and man on Lewis' other planet. I was also surprised at how completely Lewis focussed the story on the Eve figure and her dealings with the 'snake'. The Adam figure really never appeared until the last few pages, once she had been through the hard part.It's hard to remember that this story was written almost 60 years ago, during World War II. Back then, the protagonist's physical conquest of evil probably had a very noble meaning. Today, it looks quite different when our hero whips himself into a religious frenzy, then batters another man to death, spending a day or more inflicting increasing levels of injury before bashing his face in with a rock. It is chilling to see the hero justify this by declaring the other human to be an 'Un-man', so not worth human consideration. It is even more chilling that he experiences less feeling at brutally murdering his one-time compatriot than at the taste of an unusual fruit, judging by the amount of text spent on each. I just can not read today's headlines and see the act as wholly virtuous.On a more positive note, Lewis' apparent idea of sin does strike a chord with me. Given that evil is a different thing, one of the gravest sins in Lewis' world might be in the modern phrase, &quot;It's not my job,&quot; or worse yet, &quot;I don't get paid enough to do that.&quot; Many necessities are no one's job, but necessary nonetheless. No, there is no pay for many moral and requisite tasks - if anything, the doing may cost the doer dearly. Need and duty are the issues. Lewis barely wastes breath on the idea of fairness.The book, of course, is a classic. Like so many, it must be read in the spirit in which it was written; modern values only corrupt its original intent. I like the book for itself, but I also appreciate the contrast it shows between Lewis' time and our own.
1 What a terrible conclusion to a good series. The plot is slow and tedious, the story is weighed down by too many characters - many of whom are practically worthless to get to know, and is such a deviation from the other two that if it were not for about 10% of the book - I would not have known this was part of the Space Trilogy. It takes so long to get to the actual storyline for this book and the development of two of the main characters is about as interesting as listening to the description of paint drying. The story does not flow well and the jumps in locations and characters, plus a boring storyline, make following along difficult. None of the great philosophy or fun dialog is in this one like the other two. The conclusion to the series doesn't feel on par with the other two nor is it even close to epic as what was hinted in the previous two. There are no interesting characters in this book and there is hardly enough in here to classify it as science fiction. The book cover is more interesting than the actual story. If you liked the other two in the series and feel like you absolutely need to finish the trilogy, please trust me on this...you are missing nothing. You may find yourself, like me, just constantly looking how much left you have to finish before you can be done with it - not a good outlook for a book. Final Grade - D-
1 The literary disaster that ends Lewis' 'Space Trilogy'.Unlikeable or unconvincing good guys, cardboard villains, and a wandering plot could not be spruced up into anything interesting, either by a surprise visit from an historical Merlin, reanimated human body parts, or even a grown bear thrown in as a full-fleged party member.Lewis over-reached himself in this one.  Be a big Lewis fan and brew a big pot of coffee if you plan on finishing it.Better to read Til We Have Faces, if you're looking for some readable and thoughtful adult fiction by Lewis.
5 I'm always reminded of the substantial weight of goodness and the insipid tastelessness of evil when I read this one.
4 Great book! I was a little disappointed it didn't seem to follow the same vein as the previous two books, but it was still classic CS Lewis.
4 Here C. S. Lewis continues this rather fantastic trilogy, although you will have to have considerable patience to see how this story has anything to do with the previous two. When that recognition finally hits you, you will settle in to a tale of attempted world domination that has much similarity to the power struggles of today.
5 Don't want to start out by criticizing another book, but if you are looking for a theological, eschatological work that also manages to be literature, then pick this over LB series. This book is the third in Lewis' Space Trilogy, and the only one that takes place on our own fallen world. As he does in "The Last Battle" in the Chronicles of Narnia; he tackles the question of how will this whole thing end? Our protagonist to answer this question is a somewhat lightweight "modern" academe, whose main goal in life seems to be to achieve recognition in continually less desirable circles. It is one of the many valuable life insights that Lewis works into his stories. Slow starting, the book picks up the pace as the sides begin to take shape, and as the inevitable collision between good and evil, with some highly unusual twists takes place. The last fifty pages or so are among the best that I've read in my reading life. Ten stars would hardly be enough to rate this book. One of my all time favorites.
5 I have read this book several times and each time I pick it up find it hard to put it down. C.S. Lewis' satirical insights and observations of human nature are not only the stuff of genius but just as relevant now as they were sixty years ago.The story is engaging from the very beginning, even though it starts "innocently" enough with the course of a young married couple who put their own selfish ambitions ahead of each other. They are drawn into spiritual worlds quite opposite from one another and the story just continues to build in scale and tension as it heads for its climax. C.S. Lewis was a marvel in particular of his understanding of how evil minds operate (see "The Screwtape Letters"), their political machinations, and how they can suck others into a web of self-destruction by appealing first and foremost to the ego.I am not surprised to read some of the reasons for some of the negative reviews posted here as they reflect common disappointments with this, the third book in the so-called "Space Trilogy."  For one, this third book is different in tone and setting and use of characters than the previous two, perhaps undermining expectations for readers of the first two novels. Don't let that affect your judgment of the book because it is a brilliant conclusion to the series, and one of the reasons I think so is because of the differences I mentioned. A recurring theme in C.S. Lewis' writings is how people put God in a box with preconceived notions of  religiosity and that theme is constantly visited in "That Hideous Strength". So it is only appropriate if this book does not  fit in with readers' preconceived notions of plot and setting!Further, if one does not approve of Lewis' depiction of the roles of husband and wife, then one must also take issue with the Bible itself,  for it is from that source that Lewis draws his point of view on the subject.Wonderful, entertaining and wise, "That Hideous Strength" is full of the kind of clever insights and different ways of looking at things that make C.S. Lewis' writings so endearing. It is my favorite book in the series.
4 I enjoyed the read for the same reasons as book 1 & 2 and the fact that it gave closure to the series.  Again, wordy but interesting.
4 "That hideous strength" is a science fiction/fantasy novel by British writer C.S. Lewis, otherwise mostly known for his children's tales about Narnia. Lewis wrote a "space trilogy" for adults, of which "That hideous strength" is the concluding part. The novels of the trilogy can be read independently of each other.The plot of the novel revolves around a secret, evil brotherhood. The brotherhood, known as NICE, are a kind of anti-humanist, technology-worshipping Satanists. Their ostensible goal is to give humans eternal life through some kind of cloning. NICE probably symbolize the evils of modern, industrial civilization (and its enchanting allure). Their real goal is, in effect, the abolition of man. The rituals of NICE are based on conspiracy theories about secret Templar and Masonic rituals. Indeed, there is a strong atmosphere of conspiracy thinking in the novel. I'm surprised that it's almost never referenced by conspiracy theorists. Of course, the conspiracism is a literary device. There is nothing in Lewis' non-fiction indicating that he believed in conspiracies. Once again, my guess is that NICE is a symbol of modern science gone mad, and modernity in general being turned against humanity.Lewis was a fairly conservative Christian, and "That hideous strength" is therefore imbued with a Christian message and various supernatural elements. The scientists of NICE, at least initially, believe that they have cracked the secret of immortality through scientific means. In reality, their bizarre laboratory has been taken over by demons! NICE are challenged by a small group of Christians, led by the mysterious Elwin Ransom, who always reminded me of Jesus. Another supernatural character is the wizard Merlin. More annoying are the patriarchal elements of the story: marriage is for life, women should obey their husbands, and so on. Ransom is a pretty bad marriage counsellor! Another disturbing kind of Christian morality comes across when Merlin exclaims: "I'm not immoral. The only people I ever killed were heathen Saxons". So that makes it alright, then?Still, my main problem with "That hideous strength" isn't the conservative Christian message. Obviously, a Christian writer will write Christian books. The novel goes somewhat astray on two other points. First, there is a disconnect between the first part of the novel (almost a suspense thriller) and the second part, where Lewis introduces elements of Arthurian romance and a unexpected cross-over with the novels of J.R.R. Tolkien (!). I don't mind supernatural elements in sci fi novels, but these feel like the wrong kinds of supernatural elements. A charismatic revival is thrown in for good measure at the end, presumably as a foretaste of the apocalypse. Once again, the reader is left wondering what on earth is going on...The other problem I have is that Lewis somehow wanted to write a novel about pretty much everything. The introduction of a bear in the story becomes an opportunity to preach against pantheism. On another page, Lewis discusses various ways of approaching a spiritual conversion experience. And what attitude should true Christians have towards the House of Windsor? Stay tuned for a theologically correct answer. Rather than developing two or three (Christian) themes, Lewis wants to develop them all. It's almost as if he forgot that he was writing a novel, rather than a non-fiction book!That being said, I nevertheless found "That hideous strength" interesting, even intriguing. The criticism of mad science, phoney progress and secret elites was particularly interesting. As a secular "leftist", I presumably criticize society from almost exactly the opposite vantage point compared to a conservative Anglican.Still, it can hardly be denied that "science" and "progress" untempered with morality are...evil.
5 Excellent book that was very helpful to me with my graduate school class. Mr. Lewis will always be known as an excellent writer.
4 I raved about the first 2 books of this trilogy.  I can't about the last.Lewis makes a very significant change in his voice and approach here in the final book of his "Space Trilogy."  Knowing some of the history of its writing, this is in large part due to his closer association with and the influence of the fellow author and member of "The Inklings," George MacDonald.MacDonald's influence upon Lewis is evidenced by this book being much darker and much less connected to the theme of the first 2 books.  It's almost like watching Lewis trying to do a literary exercise.Still excellent writing and worth the read, but when I read the work I found the feeling to be much more heavy and dark.  Even the change in character focus contributes toward the feeling of discontinuity.That having been said, Lewis very much hits the mark with the ethical and philosophical conundrums that have multiplied and confounded our modern era.  It is almost prophetic how the biological ethical issues of today are foreseen and portrayed in a book written in 1945.Yes some of it can be explained by the context of the times in which it was written (WWII) and the darker influence of the melancholic MacDonald, but some of it comes from the nature of the material and logical progression as Lewis begins to deal not with fantasy worlds, but our own world and all of its far too evident foibles.Ironic too is the focus upon the National Institute for Coordinated Experiments (NICE).  Echoes of Orwell abound.Do not come to this work expecting more of Ransom and company.  This work feels disconnected from the others.  "Bent," if you will.  Once you get over that and begin to read and digest the very meaningful portrayals of our future world through Lewis' eyes, you will have a fresh appreciation of his unique voice and writing skills.A very satisfying and worthwhile read.  Not quite a rave review, but certainly an endorsement.
5 The final book in Lewis's Space Trilogy finds Dr. Ransom confronting a huge international organization bent on the submission of the human race and given to all kinds of strange scientific experiments and with one supreme goal--to eliminate all free thinking and emotion.  This organization, the N.I.C.E., uses the press, government reform programs, and all kinds of propaganda to make them seem like the new heroes in England, while slowly they subdue the government and begin a takeover of the world.  It's Ransom's job to stop them, though this time he has some followers and aid from a recently awakened power that has long slept.True to his style, Lewis makes this a very entertaining novel with a great underlying message.  It is very well-written and teeming with symbolism that ultimately denounces the love of science over the love of God.This book is a great read--highly recommended.
5 I've read the 3 books from this series and they are all excellent. I really enjoyed That Hideous Strength, but it's almost impossible to explain how well it was written. It will sound a bit farfetched from my descriptions, but somehow it keeps all its varying aspects perfectly blended into the story.Overall it is an engaging fantasy mingling with sci-fi. It tells the story of a young couple who are caught between good and evil. On the side of good is the old-fashioned England, the spirits of the deep heavens, and characters like Mr. Bultitude and Ivy Maggs that charm and delight. McPhee is hilarious while Ramson himself is wise and yet human. On the side of evil there is the movement towards 'social progress' with characters like Frost and Withers that fascinate with their perverse logic. Lord Feverstone is a familiar smiling bastard while The Fairy is repulsive and pitiful.Caught between these are Jane and Mark, the pragmatic newly married couple whose failure in love provides interesting fodder in and of itself. It covers the moral aspects of forward progress really well, the old-fashioned English village with all its quirks is pitted against the facist social purity of labratory and government merged. Then add an appearance by Merlyn and old magic, giving it an interesting Arthurian slant I've never seen done before.I admit that a few of the essay-style conversations about morality were wordy, but I loved this book. The descriptions are beautiful and enticing, and even briefly appearing characters are meaningful. It is at once engaging and fascinating and fun at different levels. I highly recommend it, and the series!
1 Try and do a Jules Verne type story.  Take the fun and adventure out.  Make it boring and unappealing.  Voila.  You have C.S. Lewis's planet trilogy.  This is a textbook case of how to not do a planetary romance type tale, but rather than philosophical mouthpieces rambling on, crying out for you to close the book.
5 I am an avid reader of sci-fi and fantasy and finding good books that are Christian in that genre can be difficult. This is the third in a series called Lewis' "Space Trilogy." The first two books, though set on other planets are more along the lines of works of fantasy than sci-fi. This one follows suit, though not set in space. It is set in post WW2 England and deals with a rich cast of characters facing an evil that wants to take over the country and ultimately the world. I highly recommend reading the first two books, Out of the Silent Planet and Perelandra before you read this one but it is not necessary to do so as enough is explained that the reader won't feel lost without having done so. Lewis is a wonderful writer who gets the reader personally involved in the story and characters. I was so excited when this came out on Kindle and not simply as an audio book. I hadn't read it since I was a child, and gained a whole new understanding of the theology and issues that Lewis deals with in the book. A definite must read!
5 C.S. Lewis was one of the best Christian authors of the last hundred years and this book is one of his best. Beautifully written, it can actually stand alone and be read without the other two books in the series (although they do enhance it). The image of the "crooked" room will stay with me as long as I live.
3 Unlike the first two books in the series, this one was longer than both combined and was very difficult to get into. I love C.S. Lewis, but I just couldn't finish this book. The first two novels in the series are definitely worth reading and are truly fascinating!
4 I bought the book for school, it was a good read. If you like science fiction as far as it goes,
1 Firstly let me say I'm an atheist; I find all religious beliefs to be rather silly.However this book (even more than its predecessors) is awful. It's not so much about Lewis's religious beliefs as about his politics and personal life; the whole thing is a huge compendium of Blimpish Tory ranting against anything vaguely liberal in Britain post-1945. Far and away Lewis's worst and most infuriating book. It is also embarrassingly, offensively, sexist ("Write no more books, have children instead").There is quite a lot of messed up sexism in the whole trilogy, even more so than Lewis's work in general. It seems to (mainly) boil down to a lot of the "essentialist male = closer to God" nonsense and monarchy-worship (Lewis was an ardent monarchist and distrusted democracy, as shown in this and other books).It seems to me that Lewis (to paraphrase Patricia Schroder) was scared by the whole notion of a woman who has a brain and a uterus.Lewis must have been going through a pretty bad time personally during and right after the war, to write such a bizarre, mean-spirited, book. Perhaps it's more about Lewis's own doubts, and his  reaction to the general loss of religious faith caused by the war, as the book seems to be written to bolster his *own* faith.Also the book is downright illogical in it's perception of god (e.g. the Merlin character's pronouncements against Jane for using birth control; obviously Lewis's god couldn't cope with a diaphragm.......). If this is God's will, that we be governed by the apparent mentality of a sulky child, then indeed it is a toss-up which side is good and which evil
4 This "fairy tale" starts out describing a young married couple - Mark and Jane.  Mark is the type that always has to belong to whatever he deems is the exclusive group to be in, and in belonging to such a group at the university he sorely neglects Jane, who becomes more and more disturbed by troubling dreams.  She is advised by friends to consult with a woman regarding the dreams, and she enters into a circle of people who are headed up by Dr. Ransom.Ironically, Dr. Ransom's circle is fighting the evil deeds of another exclusive group that Mark has found himself coerced into.  As always, Lewis' storytelling is great - full of vivid detail and the allegorical elements abounding, though the story is a little wild in its conclusion which can be expected in a sci-fi story.
4 Oddly enough, the third book in the Space Trilogy has almost nothing to do with space. It also has very little to do with Ransom, the main character of the first two books.The plot centers around a young couple named Mark and Jane Studdock. Mark finds himself working for NICE, the sinister organization that gets its work done by not telling anybody (including most employees) what's really going on. Jane, meanwhile, ends up with the good guys thanks to a newfound ability of hers.For the most part, the book is very well-written (as one would expect from Lewis) and enjoyable. Most of the characters are complex and interesting, especially the Studdocks.The story's main problem is the ending. The bad guys are all finished off within the space of a few pages, and without anything resembling a struggle. After so much buildup, it leaves one feeling a little cheated. Also, the concluding chapter is strange and seems very out of place.All of the mythology can get tiresome at times, especially when the planetary eldils (the 'gods') are involved. It slows the book down considerably. An exception to this is Merlin himself, who is a very interesting character. Sadly, he doesn't show up until the end, and leaves right after he's done him job.The book also very strongly supports a "traditional" role for women in marriage, even going so far as having the good guys tell Jane that she shouldn't join them without Mark's permission. This idea is said to be the will of God himself, not just someone's opinion. This was offensive at times, but did not contribute to the four-star rating, since it's so subjective. A person who agrees with Lewis will probably find that it enhances the book.With these minor reservations, I recommend That Hideous Strength to anyone who likes fantasy, especially C.S. Lewis fans.
5 QUOTE:'...Dimble and he and the Dennistons shared between them a knowledge of Arthurian Britain which orthodox scholarship will probably not reach for some centuries.'What exactly [Merlin] had done [in Bragdon Wood] they did not know; but they had all, by various routes, come too far to consider his art mere legend and imposture, or to equate it with what the Renaissance called Magic. Dimble even maintained that a good critic, by his sensibility alone, could detect the difference between the traces which the two things had left on literature. "What common measure is there," he would ask, "between ceremonial occultists like Faustus and Prospero and Archimago with their midnight studies, their forbidden books, their attendant fiends or elementals, and a figure like Merlin who seems to produce results simply by being Merlin?" And Ransom agreed. He thought that Merlin's art was the last survival of something older and different--something brought to Western Europe after the fall of Numinor and going back to an era in which the general relations of mind and matter on this planet had been other than those we know. It had probably differed from Renaissance Magic profoundly. For Paracelsus and Agrippa and the rest had achieved little or nothing: Bacon himself--no enemy to magic except on this account--reported that the magicians "attained not to greatness and certainty of works." The whole Renaissance outburst of forbidden arts had, it seemed, been a method of losing one's soul on singularly unfavourable terms. But the older Art had been a different proposition.'But if the only possible attraction of Bragdon lay in its association with the last vestiges of Atlantean magic, this told the company something else...'--The words quoted above are to me some of the most haunting words from "That Hideous Strength," the most difficult to understand of Lewis's novels, and the deepest of his books. I'm not sure the Arthurian element really belongs in this book; it was introduced after not being present in the first two books in the trilogy, and spiritually tastes like a something of a spiritual poisoned apple in the book of how the N.I.C.E., a diabolical bureaucracy free to do all in the name of science, was stopped by Maleldil, men, and angels. But then, Lewis was a medievalist and while he knew much other medieval liturature, the Arthurian legends are probably the greatest works of medieval European literature, for good and for ill. The choice is not surprising.However, the book, which Lewis candidly explains as "a modern fairy-tale for grown-ups" and has some people off on the wrong foot when it is handed to them as one more science fiction novel, is bound to be a disappointment or at least an unexpected surprise, if it answers to the expectations of science fiction. Even with the expectations Lewis lays out, for a novel which follows the fairy-tale formula of starting with the familiar, the almost pedestrian, beginning. As Lewis says in the preface, "the cottages, castles, woodcutters, and petty kings with which a fairy tale opens have become for us as remote as the witches and ogres to which it proceeds"; George MacDonald'sPhantastes, which Lewis said baptized his imagination, starts with MacDonald's here and now and a young man inheriting access to a desk, exploring it, meets his fairy grandmother, and has adventures in fairy-land.About Lewis's words about "a tall tale about deviltry" I have some reservations. Specifically, I have reservations that the bits about deviltry in particular are really that far-fetched. The book accurately portrays how diabolical things happen in real life; the story is about deviltry as falling dominoes in the infernal N.I.C.E., and while the bit about Merlin may be a tall tale and poetic about that, the N.I.C.E. could have been plagiarized as an artistically exceptionally-rendered pastiche of historical accounts about the Nazis, who had a special occult affairs division and whose Fuhrer enjoyed uncanny protection in multiple assassination attempts; the lesser-known WWII Japanese medical experimentors who would infect a man with a fatal disease and after letting the disease develop, vivisect him without anaesthesia; the Marxist death camps that vastly eclipsed the Nazi body counts--to pick examples from Lewis's own historical setting (our own time has seen unsettling developments in the U.S.A., in Europe, and globally). Merlin may be far-fetched; the N.I.C.E. is if anything not nearly far-fetched enough.Lewis places "That Hideous Strength," in my mind the greatest of Lewis's fictional works, as paired withThe Abolition of Man, in my mind the greatest of his non-fiction works. One may be fiction and the other may be non-fiction, but the critique of a real problem where some of the inaccuracies of the fantastic portrayal only underscore the basic point further. In "That Hideous Strength", "There when a young man takes a maiden in marriage, they do not lie together, but each lies with a cunningly fashioned image of the other, made to move and to be warm by devilish arts, for real flesh will not please them, they are so dainty (delicati) in their dreams of lust." (I would not enjoy explaining to Lewis the place of Internet porn. Even among churches that treat it as a sin, it is the top sin confessed among young men.)In short, Lewis's work is a masterpiece. I've read a lot of medieval literature. I haven't read anything else like this, even from the pens of medievalists.C.J.S. HaywardAuthor, [...]
2 I adore C.S. Lewis so much... so it pains me to say that I really, really disliked this book. The first time I attempted reading it, I got 90-something pages in, and then stopped. On my second attempt, I made it all the way through the 382 pages in about three weeks' time (that is a LONG time for me). For one, it was just boring. All of the fantastic imagination and vivid imagery from the first two books was non-existent in That Hideous Strength. It was like watching black-and-white TV. Secondly, I cared nothing for any of the characters. Not even Ransom. They were all dull and very wordy without saying much of anything at all. It was also quite a bit darker than the other two books, and many of the antagonists met gruesome ends. The allegory/theology/philosophy was also very difficult to follow. Of course I got the picture of the battle of good and evil, but as to the specifics, I don't have a clue.
4 Many fans of Lewis' work rate this least of the Space Trilogy books; it lacks "Out of the Silent Planet"'s wonder and "Perelandra"'s lyricism.  However, for a look at where a situationally-moral, rationalist, humanist society is bound to wind up, it is priceless.The main characters are a young couple who got married out of love and are finding it hard going in "the real world".  The wife, Jane, has an unusual ability to 'dream true' and when her dreams start applying to her own life, she finds it unsettling.  Her husband, Mark, a young don (or professor) is no help; he's too wound up in college politics (and some very loathesome friends) and the possibility of a job with a new scientific foundation to pay much attention to her.The story really begins moving when the foundation, called Belbury, begins moving in on everyday life.  But, as always with Lewis, there is a moral opposite ready to stand against Belbury; in it, we find an old friend and several new ones.This book is astonishingly accurate about where society is now -- as with some of Lewis' other observations (Screwtape's toast to the college comes to mind), it's hard to remember that Lewis wrote them nearly 50 years ago -- they're that close to current events and modern society.
1 I very much enjoyed the first too books in this trilogy, but this third book has some problems. While the sci-fi purist concept of a 'corporation' taking over and essentially looking to sterilize the planet and 'create the superior being' is well founded, Dr. Ransom's character really does little in this book other than 'sit and wait' for the higher forces to come to put a stop to it. The addition of Merlin was interesting insomuch as his dialog with Dr. Ransom, but the way in which he is sent to resolve the conflict at hand is a bit much, and to be honest entirely to grusome. Also, there is really little to no reason to empathize with the character of Mark, and Lewis' treatment of Jane is typically patriarchal to the point of (personal) insult. Even the fact that her name is &quot;jane&quot; (very non-entity-like) compared to &quot;Mark&quot; (apostle), is a bit much. But of course, that was part of the 'message' I was supposed to receive I suppose (being a female reader).
2 Well, this was very disappointing. In the final chapter of C.S. Lewis' space trilogy, he completely abandons almost everything that made the first two novels interesting. First, Dr. Ransom, the main character from the last books, is no longer the main character. Rather, two new characters, Mark and Jane, are the ones the reader sees most of the story through. Also, Lewis abandons most of the space theme as the characters stay Earthbound, losing much of the awe and wonder that characterized the settings of the first two novels. He also is way too analytical in this book as he is trying to refute some of the themes that make up the modern sci-fi movement of his time, as characterized by Isaac Asimov and Arthur C. Clarke. Really, this book is nearly 400 pages of debate, petty academic squabbles, and refutations, most of which hardly advances the story at all. And lastly, and perhaps the greatest tragedy of all, the entire story is anti-climatic. Not only do none of the characters really do anything to shape the story, but even Lewis admits, through the character of Dr. Ransom, that everyone was just observers and not movers. BORING! Still, some of the arguments that Lewis kicks around are interesting carry overs from the previous two novels, but this book completely failed as a story. Such a shame too. After "Perelandra," this one had so much promise.
4 This last in the series I found interesting but a little dissapointing. The book moved slowly in introducing characters and was difficult in tying it to the other two books in the series.
4 Mark and Jane are a newly married couple in mid-20th century England. They're young, and figuring things out for themselves - figuring themselves out. The crisis that moves them through this process is the disintegration of their little university hamlet by dark powers of technology.C.S. Lewis was a bachelor at the time he wrote this, and a man's man and academic to boot, yet he portrays a sympathetic and believable Jane, the young new wife. His portrayal of Mark, her academic don husband, is less sympathetic and more caricature like. But however realistic they are, the story is a page turner. Lewis pens fantastic dialogue, while slowly racheting up the suspense, and unraveling the complicated tale.The story brings together several threads of Lewis' work: the space travels of Harry Ransom, the protagonist of Perelandra and Out of the Silent Planet; his piercing focus on the workings of human conscience and rationlization; and British legend and mythology.Well worth the read.
5 This third book took a little more concentration.  BUT!  It was totally SO C.S. Lewis at his best adult fiction!  He made me think in books 1 and 2.  But book 3 not only made me THINK and CONCENTRATE ... it made me  RE-EVALUATE how easily I can let things happen without a question.  I know the series was written very, very long ago.  However, if you read with &#34;seeing eyes&#34; and &#34;listening ears&#34;, you hear what the Spirit is saying to believers TODAY.I dare you to read the entire Trilogy!
4 "That Hideous Strength" (1945) is the third book in the Space Trilogy, but in many ways it is completely different than the first two books: "Out of the Silent Planet" (1938) and "Perelandra" (1943).  The first two books are written almost exclusively from the perspective of Dr. Ransom, but in this book it is usually Mark or Jane Studdock's perspective and never Dr. Ransom's.  The first two books were fairly short novels, but this one is longer than both of the first two combined.  The first two books take the reader to Mars (Malacandra) and Venus (Perelandra), but this book stays on Earth (Thulcandra).  The first two books have a single protagonist, while this book has a group trying to work together.The story is set in post-war England in a small university town (Edgestow).  Mark Studdock is a young professor who seems driven to always make his way into the inner circle.  His wife, Jane, is being troubled by some disturbing dreams which the reader soon learns are clairvoyant.  Through the early part of the book, Mark is pulled into the group N.I.C.E. (National Institute for Coordinated Experiments), while his wife finds herself pulled toward the group of heroes which oppose them.  Much of the novel is about the gathering of the forces.  Mark is drawn to N.I.C.E. by his ambition, but he does question many of the actions and thus finds himself in a tenuous position.  Jane does not want to oppose Mark, but when N.I.C.E. tries to arrest her she has little choice but to go with the other side.There are some very interesting aspects of this book, and it definitely takes some chances in bringing in the King Arthur story and blending it with the Eldil story established in the first two books of the series.  Lewis is clearly talking about fascism in many places in this book.  For example, N.I.C.E.'s goals include elimination of people they consider backward and selective breeding.  They control the state functions such as the police, as well as industry, educational institutions and the media.  Lewis also takes aim at materialism and how it is ultimately incompatible with ethics.  Lewis brings in some religious themes as well, such as the Tower of Babel scene near the end where the leaders of N.I.C.E. are no longer able to understand each other's language.  In fact, the books title is taken from a poem and refers to the Tower of Babel.There were also some things which did not work for me in this novel.  I did not understand why he felt it necessary to make Lord Feverstone in this story be the same person as Mr. Devine in "Out of the Silent Planet".  He never makes use of that aspect, and the two characters do not really act the same way.  The story also takes a long time to develop, and it probably would have been better served to move the story forward at a quicker pace as he did in the first two books.  That being said, Lewis did turn this around from what I thought was the weak-link in the series, "Perelandra".  This book was nominated for the Retro Hugo in 1996 for novels written in the year 1945.
4 As a fairy tale, this book starts off rather slowly (as many fairy tales do), but the action eventually picks up and the ending is good.  Besides the story line, this book presents a more right brained approach to the things Lewis wrote about in THE ABOLITION OF MAN, as well as a depiction of the groups he talks about in his essay &quot;The Inner Ring&quot;, the 6th chapter of his book THE WEIGHT OF GLORY.  Lewis manages bring in several other mythologies into his own story, including Numinor (from his friend J.R.R. Tolkien's LORD OF THE RINGS) and Merlin (from the Arthurian saga).  If you can patiently work your way through the start of this novel, the body and ending of it will reward your efforts.
5 That Hideous Strength, the third book in C. S. Lewis&#8217;s Space Trilogy is not much like the previous two books, Out of the Silent Planet and Perelandra. It is about twice as long, the story is set entirely on Earth, though the angelic Oyarses, the rulers of the planets, make an appearance at the climax. Elwin Ransom is not the protagonist of That Hideous Strength but he appears midway in the story and plays an important role in it. The supernatural plays a far greater role in That Hideous Strength than in the previous two books and it might be classified as more in the realm of fantasy than properly science fiction.The story of That Hideous Strength centers on Mark and Jane Studdock, a recently, though somewhat unhappily married couple. Mark Studdock is a professor of Sociology at Bracton College, part of the University of Edgestow. He is ambitious, desiring most of all to be in the inner circle. He is delighted to be part of the &#8220;Progressive Element&#8221; at Bracton and supports their intrigues to sell some of the college&#8217;s land to the National Instituted for Co-ordinated Experiments. Mark is excited to meet Lord Feverstone, aka Dick Devine one of the antagonists from Out of the Silent Planet. Feverstone is both a senior fellow of Bracton and a leading figure at the NICE and when he offers to take Mark to the institute at Belbury for a possible job, Mark eagerly agrees to go.At the NICE, Mark meets a variety of strange characters including John Wither, the Deputy Director who seems only vaguely aware of his surroundings, Dr. Filostrato, a physiologist who has managed to keep the severed head of an executed murderer alive, and Major &#8220;Fairy&#8221; Hardcastle, the sadistic, lesbian head of security. At first, Mark is not sure what his new job is supposed to be, or even if he actually has a new job. He falls in and out of favor with the authorities at The NICE seemingly at random and is never sure where he stands. This is gradually revealed as a method to bring him further into the mysteries surrounding NICE. It turns out that the leaders of the NICE have been in contact with demons or fallen eldilla, though they are not aware of their true nature, believing them to be superior beings called &#8220;macrobes&#8221;.Meanwhile, Jane Studdock while supposedly working on her dissertation on John Donne is dismayed to find that she has become merely a housewife. She has begun to have clairvoyant dreams. When she confides in the wife of her tutor, Mrs. Dimble, she is taken to a manor at St Anne&#8217;s where she meets Mr. Fisher-King, Elwin Ransom. Ransom has been much changed by his travels to Malacandra and Perelandra and is no longer the simple philologist he was at the beginning of the Space Trilogy. Because he has lived in Paradise on Venus, Ransom appears younger and no longer ages, though still bears a wound on his heel inflicted by Weston during their fight. Ransom has become the Pendragon, the heir of King Arthur and has gathered around him a small group of people dedicated to fighting the evil represented at the NICE.Jane&#8217;s clairvoyant dreams indicated that the NICE is attempting to disinter the body of Merlin from his resting place in the land they purchased from Bracton College. Merlin is not dead but in a suspended state and the leaders of the NICE hope to make use of his knowledge of the ancient lore of Numinor to effect a union between modern science and ancient magic. Merlin, however has his own ideas.In his review of That Hideous Strength, George Orwell said that the introduction of the supernatural weakened the story and that one always knew who would win in any fight between God and the Devil. I don&#8217;t agree. Leaving aside the fact that Lewis would not have written any fiction that was not infused with his worldview that contains the possibility of miracles, I did not find that the supernatural elements of the story in any way lessened the suspense. In fact, I can honestly say that That Hideous Strength was one of the few books that I couldn&#8217;t bear to put down, since I was desperate to know just what the villains at the NICE were up to. There is something of a deus ex machina effect at the climax in which the ruling oyarses of the various planets, identified with the Roman gods the planets are named after, descend to Earth to upset the plans of the NICE, but Lewis skillfully builds up to the climax. The repentance of Mark Studdock is also well handled as he realizes that everything he had been working toward isn&#8217;t really what he thought he wanted. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and I think it is the best of C. S. Lewis&#8217;s fiction I have yet read.
3 After enjoying the first two books in C. S. Lewis' space trilogy I was excited to start reading the third book titled "That Hideous Strength." It is the conclusion of the first two books "Out of the Silent Planet" and "Perelandra." Unfortunately "That Hideous Strength" is much different than the first two books in the series. It is a "modern" fairytale tied to the legends of Merlin the wizard. The first two books were very original works, so it felt weird to have the possibility of Merlin suddenly joining the story (you will have to read the book to find out if he actually does). One of the strengths of the story, in terms of science fiction, was the part about the amoral use of science to create a hideous leader. There is also a reference to the moon, but it is very brief. The main theme of the story is about the spiritual corruption on planet Earth. Evil is often cloaked with the appearance of good. People often think themselves the opposite of what they really are. The author did a good job addressing these important issues, but I found the story itself gloomy and tiring to read. Much like "Screwtape Letters" this story makes good points but is not for someone looking for a cheerful read. There are a few cheerful moments in this book, but they are lacking.C. S. Lewis is a great author, but this story is not what I hoped for. The author describes this book as a fairytale for adults. It is more harsh and gloomy than the first two books in the trilogy. It does tie together with the first two books, but I had to do much reading before I saw the connection.
4 I have read this book more than once.  Already, that means it is a good book.  The only reason I gave it 4 stars instead of 5 is that I thought that the first two books of the series are a lot better.
3 The last volume in Lewis science fiction trilogy is the least enjoyable and it's simply because Lewis does too good a job in describing institutional evil. There are no lyrical descriptions of other worlds, just a thoroughly nasty research program and facility. The protagonists are a modern couple caught up in a near apocalyptic event. Lewis does introduce a rather original version of Merlin, who makes things lively. And there is a good deal of satire aimed at the sort of modern customs, ideas and institutions that Lewis clearly disagrees with. It's like the &#34;Screwtape Letters&#34; with a less light touch. Still even less than stellar Lewis is better and more thought provoking than the works of many other writers.
5 I am a fan of CS Lewis, and this is one of his classic works.  The Space Trilogy is dated (Written during WWII), but is still engrossing and interesting.  The fact that it has endured this long is a testament to the quality of the story.  Out of the Silent Planet and Parelandra are both fairly light reading.  That Hideous Strength is a bit harder to get through, but well worth the time spent reading it.
5 This copy is in wonderful condition for one that came out in 1978! Very pleased and happy to have it in my stash of C S Lewis books.
4 Lewis's writing seems always to be about the struggleof good and evil.  His "evil", as I see it, consistsof a separation from the joy of love and life, and adescent into passionless, dull destruction andtime-wasting.  While I am not a Christian, I deeplyappreciate his insights on how we get caught in habitsof this kind of evil, and drawn away from joy.Lewis's portrayal in this book of the advancement of evil through individuals' petty efforts at self-aggrandizement rang true.  It was frightening to watch unfold through nearly content-free board meetings and hall conversations.There were also some choice insights in the course of the book about how we can help or hinder ourselves in being good.  Lewis tends to be clear about the point that devotion to God (or goodness) has nothing to do with looking saintly every Sunday in the right sort of church, and everything to do with cultivating generous impulses, enjoying the life given to us, and being good to one another, without regard for personal status.I enjoyed the first part of the story quite a bit, as both literature and spiritual exploration.  When Lewis suddenly introduced Martians (I am wildly oversimplifying for the sake of clarity) the effect was ludicrously awkward, IMHO, but I was willing to let it go, particularly since he had in fact spent two previous books, only one of which I've read, presenting these entities in more context.The ending, unfortunately, shared this awkwardness.  After a book-long buildup, it seemed to all fly to pieces in a rather unsatisfying manner that felt less like a resolution than like Cecil B. DeMille pulling out all the stops and using all his ancient Roman and Biblical costumes, props, sets, and wild animals at once.Some great bits, good spiritual insights, thought-provoking, but flawed as a novel.  I recommend it if you can forgive that and want some thoughts about goodness and evil to chew on.
2 The first two books of this Cosmic Trilogy were simple linear plots of great dullness. This book differs in that it runs parallel story lines. This serves to make it much more complex and possibly more interesting than its predecessors. But barely. Simplistic characterisations. Plodding plot lines. Opportunities for creating tension are always missed. And an ending that just sort of happenings in an unsatisfactory manner. This could have been the book that redeems this series, but though it does do better than the first two it's still rather awful. This series is highly recommended in lists of the best SF books, but I can't see how. I wanted to see why it scored so highly, so I pushed myself to read it all, but I can't suggest that others have to suffer through this series. There's nothing to hate about the series, it's just boring and there are better things to read.
5 C. S. Lewis wraps up his &quot;Space Trilogy&quot; right back on planet Earth where it is up to a cadre of ordinary folks, mythical beings, and brute beasts to thwart the forces of supreme wickedness. With the assistance of the Director--a man familiar to readers of the previous two books in the trilogy--this strange collection of characters is pitted against a vaguely-familiar, propaganda-driven totalitarian regime ironically called by the acronym NICE.This book is Lewis at his satirical best--an uppercut landed to the jaw of secular, anti-family, &quot;post-christian&quot; society.What is particularly striking about this book is who Lewis fingers as the advance-guard for the evil that sadly dominates on Earth, ever trying to extend its power: a bunch of place-seeking, ethics-free, jive-talking academics who have long left any pretense to reason and science behind. Instead, they are driven by a misguided altruism that manifests itself, ultimately, as complete misanthropy.In this regard, Lewis must be regarded as prescient. Anyone who has spent any time in American academia will immediately sympathize with the plight of the characters in the book who *dare* to stand up to the censorial, elitist, marxist/leninist, anti-religion, pro-death agenda so prevalent among the &quot;progressive&quot; leadership of the university. Lewis had these people's number fifty years ago.In short, this book is a fun read and though couched in humorous terms, is deadly serious at its core.
5 "That Hideous Strength" is the 3rd and final book in C.S. Lewis' space trilogy.  Although "That Hideous Strength" takes place entirely on Earth, supernatural elements from the first two books make an appearance in this one.Anytime a book (such as this one) makes me underline passages on nearly every page and anytime a book makes me stop to think about ideas or care about the characters or re-read passages for the sheer delight they bring, I know I've just read a classic.While difficult and dense at times, "That Hideous Strength" is a classic that should provoke an enlightening joy in its readers!Lewis called his book "A fairy tale for grown ups," which is actually a pretty good summary of the whole thing.  What Lewis attempts (and mostly achieves) is to represent the invisible spiritual realities through the ordinary, humdrum things of the world.  As in fairy tales, "That Hideous Strength" starts out with the ordinary but ends up in the most extraordinary way.I won't ruin the plot for those who haven't read it, but Lewis primarily deals with the life of a married couple, Mark and Jane Studdock.  It's important that the novel begins with marriage, refers to marriage throughout, and ends with marriage.  While marriage, especially one like the Studdock's, may seem humdrum, it is, in reality, a profound spiritual picture of both the union between Christ and the Church and of the union of love that is to exist among men.When I recently taught "That Hideous Strength" to a high school class in Apologetics at the classical Anglican school where I teach, I had them read the book through the lens of "influence," "peer pressure," and "motivations."  As you read the book, pay attention to why Mark and Jane acts the way they do, who influences them, and what their motivations are.  Lewis has given us a profound imaginative look at how our lives are really governed.  This book ended up being the perfect companion to my Apologetics class in which I tried to get my students to see the necessity of every Christian giving an account of the hope that is within them.  We've also spent a lot of time this year talking about peer pressure and how it can lead Christians closer to or further away from God.Another way of reading "That Hideous Strength" is to look at it through the lens of the different worldviews that are presented.  Among these are the unthinking atheism of Mark, the selfish practical atheism and individualism of Jane, the modernistic dream of human reason, a more postmodern mix of reason and the occult, and Christianity.  It's fascinating to see the war of the worldviews at work in "That Hideous Strength"!  Lewis clearly understood the spiritual state of England in 1946, and his analysis of that condition continues to have relevance for the Western world in the 21st century.  Lewis' fairy tale succeeds in alerting his readers to the very real presence of the supernatural in our ordinary lives.One of the things that make the book such a joy to read is Lewis' insight into human nature.  While the "I" passages of the book are unnecessarily obtrusive, Lewis nevertheless gives the reader a lot of keen insight into the nature of man, the nature of marriage, and the psychology that lies behind our thoughts and actions.Another sumptuous part of the novel is Lewis' language.  As with so many of his other works, he has many quotable lines from either the characters or the narrators.  At other times, a lyrical beauty sings through the passages, such as those where he describes the effects that earthly characters feel when in the presence of the eldil or angels.Even the plot itself, filled with most fantastic twists and turns and bizarre occurrences, will not only delight but also shock the reader into wanting to read until the consummation of events in the final chapter.Finally, I find Lewis' injection of not only Merlin but also Arthurian mythology to be not only out of place but also a positive distraction from the Christian meaning and symbolism of the rest of the novel.  It's almost as if Lewis, being the classical and medieval scholar he was, couldn't help himself.  It makes for fascinating reading, but it's not entirely favorable in its effect.In spite of a few odd things I didn't care for, "That Hideous Strength" remains a wonder and delight that I highly recommend to serious readers, especially those who are Christian.
5 In "That Hideous Strength", C.S. Lewis brings his SciFi trilogy back to Earth and takes it in a different direction.  The first book, "Out of the Silent Planet", and the second, "Perelandra" use space travel and encounters with inhabitants of Mars and Venus respectively as vehicles for Lewis' spiritual allegory.  "That Hideous Strength" leaves space travel behind and feels more like a horror story in which the forces of evil conspire against goodness on Earth.  Of the three books, this one is the least fun, but it is the one with the most memorable depiction of the means by which the dark side manipulates human perceptions to destroy impulses toward goodness, hope, and love.I first read this book in the 1970's. Frequently over the years since, while looking at paintings in museums, Lewis' words in "That Hideous Strength" have come back to me as an alternate angle for assessment of the art in front of me.
5 C.S. Lewis would not have named this series the Space Trilogy. He used the term Deep Heaven for "the packed reality that men call empty space." Everyone else doesn't have a problem with the title so much as the fact that the boxed set of the three books is continually out of print.Of the three books, I think the second, Perelandra, alternately called Voyage to Venus, is the best. Yet the effect of reading the trilogy together and in order is better than that book alone. The first book, Out of the Silent Planet, is gripping so far as it goes. A friend of mine said the second book, Perelandra, was the best book she'd ever read. But I'd never considered the third book, That Hideous Strength on its own merits until I read an essay by philosophy prof Richard Purtill entitled "That Hideous Strength: A Double Tale." Before that I viewed the last book as starting rather slow, even though it picks up half way through and pulls the three books through to a dazzling ending.The trilogy is written at a higher reading level than the Narnian Chronicles (the latter were meant for kids), although it's arguably easier to read than The Lord of the Rings. Note: Purtill's essay is scheduled to be included in the revised edition of Lord of the Elves and Eldils: Philosophy and Fantasy in Lewis and Tolkien due out sometime in 2006, along with his most popular essay, "Did C.S. Lewis Lose His Faith?" which argues against the view implied in the film Shadowlands that he did.The Narnian film may be introducing readers to the books, which, whatever one thinks of the film, is a good thing. But readers closing the Chronicles will be glad to find their way into Lewis' Deep Heaven and the rest of his fiction.
5 Lewis, like his friend and fellow philologist Tolkien, dealt in the creation of realistic myth. This well paced novel culminates his Space Trilogy, commencing with Out of the Silent Planet and continuing with Perelandra, based on the theme of natural and beneficial order versus the illusion of unchecked, destructive "human progress."While one may take objection to many of Lewis's ideas on religion - I myself do - the unseen world of the eldils, or angels - both good and bad - that he constructs is so grandiose and fascinating that I for one forgive him all offences.The story opens quietly in a small English town, where a modern young woman - modern for 1945 that is - endures the frustrations of marriage to an underpaid fellow of a minor university. From this innocent beginning, the pair become entrapped by the machinery of a satanic group bent on world domination.Step by step they are enticed into a satanic plan for world domination, yet, while the plot snares them with all the devilish menace that a reader could wish for, its grasp on their lives is achieved by everyday, believable manipulations: the threatened loss of employment, the flattery of recognition, the temptation of money, power and fame. Eventually the Satanists overreach themselves, and the novel culminates in an imaginative battle of good and evil, with both spiritual and brute physical forces on either side.The writer George Orwell argues that the inevitable triumph of good over evil weakens the novel, but I don't agree. To me, its charm lies not in its ending but in the skill with which the story is told. It says much for this story, that though science has overtaken it during passage of half a century and more, its lives as though written today.I particularly enjoy Lewis's construction of opposed hierarchies, and the subtlety with which both good and bad characters are drawn. But how remarkable it is that we are often drawn more to the bad characters! My favourite amongst these is Wither, an ancient villain, whose massive but crumbling intellect hides behind a faade of amiable vagueness as he schemes his way towards ultimate power.Ending on this note, is it not strange and intriguing that a strong Christian apologist like professor Lewis should need to spice his calm beliefs with garnishes of magic, naturism and warlike demigods?
5 Same as &#34;Silent Planet:If one can fathom the writing (read that &#34;of an author educated in England in the &#34;20s or so, in an upper class, at well-to-do schools/college(s) and who leaks through his writing, possession of not too much knowledge of the &#34;lower classes and less educated, the Silent Planet is a fun and interesting novel, thoy requiring a bit of slogging thru at times..  Of course he had to depend on fantasy, there was virtually no detailed information about heavenly bodies when the Trilogy was written.  His transposition of old earth legends into a solar system wide family argument was masterful.  He did a thorough and complete writing job.  I wish he had survived to learn of the real facts about the planets..
5 As in many of C.S. Lewis' other non-fiction works, he astutely articulates in That Hideous Strength the dangers of the "progressive" movement. On a side note, I find it amusing, at least, that the term Progressive should be utilized. It seems that in order to progress towards something, there needs be a stated goal. What is it for a "progressive"? If it turns out to be an apocalyptic, utopian vision wherein all are (voluntarily or involuntarily) made to hold hands and sing Kumbaya, or worse, an ode to the all powerful nanny state, then I most vociferously must object. I would not go in for totalitarianism, whether from the left or right (politically), secular or religious. If they want a revolution, like the Beatles, they can count me out! After all, the only genuine revolutionary is the God of Love, Jesus the Christ. Love, of course, meaning to desire the objective good of the other. I suspect that all leftist and "progressive" thought is merely trying to escape God and His Love. If one succeeds in this attempted escape, Hell is where they land...eternally. What is most puzzling is that they have the audacity, when this is suggested, to blame a "cruel, vindictive god". Notice I have neglected to capitalize the G in God. Even if they don't understand, those who reject God eternally, will still have a "god" and it is the "god of this world" and Satan certainly can be a cruel task master.As to the book, I highly recommend it. It is, in my opinion, (outside of The Screwtape Letters) C.S. Lewis' best fiction. I know some may reject my claim and make an opposing claim for the Chronicles of Narnia. However, in my opinion, the allegory is a tad to thick for my tastes. That Hideous Strength is a masterpiece for fiction from a Theistic reference point. C.S. Lewis was able integrate his non-fiction philosophy along with a compelling storyline and likeable (or detestable) characters. It must be said that Mr. Lewis is not a master of verbal caricature (like Dickens), symbolism (like Hawthorne), or even fantastical descriptions (like Tolkien). That being said, That Hideous Strength is a fast-moving (even more so if one has read the other two novels in this trilogy), enjoyable fantasy/scientific novel that could not be more relevant for our times.Finally, I suspect leftists, atheists, and "progressives" hate this novel due to the fact that it exposes them.
5 This is my favorite of the Space Trilogy. C.S. Lewis tells a gripping tale and at the same time his world philosophy shines through with out sounding stuffy or &#34;preachy.&#34;Although some of our challenges as a society have changes, this book is still very relevant to modern thinking.My favorite part of the book (without spoiling) is the descriptions of various joys that visit the house near the end. That's the best way I can think to describe it without giving it away.C.S Lewis is a master story teller and knows his topics well.
5 It took a while to get through the first half of this book and keep all the separate pieces together in my head. But, the second half of this book more than made up for the plodding through the first half! The first two in this series were easier reads, but this was the icing on the cake!
4 THAT HIDEOUS STRENGTH (THS) is the most oblique book of the space trilogy. I read it in high school because I thought I should. I never got it. Then, in grad school, I took a class called Later Renaissance Literature. Over Christmas break I rushed home and read the old paperback again, and I got it. It was life changing.Two things will help puzzled readers understand this book: Read some Orwell, and read Lewis' own non-fiction book called THE DISCARDED IMAGE (skip section 1.) ALL of the Space Trilogy is written from a medieval concept of the heavens. That concept is strongest in THS.Superficially, the novel focuses on a "modern" marriage between an educated woman and an educated man, the Studdocks. Though they are young, their marriage is already on the rocks, though neither admits it. The story splits into two parts as Mark, the husband, is drawn into the devilish society called the N.I.C.E., and Jane, the wife, seeks refuge with Elwin Ransom (the main character in the previous two novels) and the company of friends who reside at St. Anne's.First warning, the beginning of the book is dull as doorknobs. Things pick up when Mark gets drawn into the N.I.C.E by none other than the wealthy and corrupt Devine from the first novel. The sections dealing with Mark's initiation are very readable.The book builds very slowly to its conclusion, but it's worth the read if the reader comprehends that Lewis is describing the manifestation of the Real in the world of the ordinary or material. I don't want to give too much away, except to complain that Jane is not made nearly as odious as Mark, who fails in every way, and even when he does develop some courage, he fumbles so much that you're not sure if he's not just more afraid of agreeing with his tempter.Once again, the ending is fantastic, as the hideous evil of the N.I.C.E. descends into a burlesque of confusion brought on by their evil.You will like THS if you like Lewis and want to see the world as he paints it, through medieval eyes. I really liked this book, but it's not for everybody.
5 I feel blessed to have entered the mind of a genius. I was on the edge of my seat reading this beautiful book! Good vs. evil. Light vs. dark. Love vs. intelligence. There is no end to what God can reveal through a man who loves Him. Read this book!!
4 The final book in the "Space Trilogy" is by far the longest, and has had the greatest lasting effect on society. That said, it was probably my least favorite of the three novels.That Hideous Strength, which takes its name from a 16th century poem about the Tower of Babel (this comes into play in the story's final moments), can be evaluated in two ways: its influence, and the story itself.There is no doubt that this has been an influential book. Along with The Abolition of Man, a non-fiction book written by Lewis in 1943 (two years prior to That Hideous Strength), this book addresses a reductionist, science-based understanding of humanity and the decreasing acceptance of an objective moral standard. Lewis felt very strongly about the issues he'd presented in the essays compiled in Abolition, but felt that literature was a more effective way of disseminating his own views.The antagonists in the story are a secret society with influence throughout British society, from politics to education to media to religion. They even have their own private army/police force. This group (called the National Institute of Co-ordinated Experiments, or "N.I.C.E.") believes that mankind must take charge of its own evolution, and that through scientific means, can determine what it means to actually be human. Through subversive means (primarily through control of the media) the N.I.C.E. aims to bend England, and eventually the rest of the planet, to its own worldview.This presents a dystopian view of the future, which has been seen by many readers as a distinct possibility in reality. There are people and organizations with those motives (though perhaps not the exact method of seeing them through). They have largely gained control of the media and educational institutions. The result has been a loss of "faith" in objective moral standards in society-at-large. For these reasons, That Hideous Strength has been seen as somewhat "prophetic", much in the same way as other novels written by some of Lewis' contemporaries, such as Orwell's 1984 and Rand's Atlas Shrugged.While I agree with the Christian worldview which tinted Lewis' novels far more than I agree with the worldviews of atheists such as Orwell and Rand, I thought that the supernatural elements of That Hideous Strength actually detracted from the story. The story is obviously a fantasy (the book is subtitled "A Modern Fairy-Tale for Grownups"), but Lewis' depiction of angelic beings and mythical creatures seemed an awkward addition to an otherwise very realistic depiction of a (then) near-future England.I certainly believe that spiritual warfare plays a more significant role in day-to-day events than most people realize, but I found the combination of mystery/intrigue with medieval and mythological characters a bit confusing at times. Personally, I think that Lewis could have communicated his point better had he chosen to focus more on either the fantastic or the realistic elements, rather than juxtaposing them to the extent that he did. In this regard, I am in agreement with George Orwell himself, who reviewed That Hideous Strength in 1945. You can find that review online.However, I also agree with Orwell that, on the whole, this is a tremendous book, and worthy of recommendation.
1 The good: a dark, non-children's book, quite down-to-Tellus (if you'll forgive the pun), the philosophical/theological point was intellectually stimulating, and there were a few descriptions of ethereal experience and being that might not hold a candle flame to the light in Dante's Paradiso, but which was still beautiful (see "Descent of the Gods"). The bad and the ugly: Lewis' writing style is haphazard at best--names changed sporadically without reason, numerous misspellings, random pieces of linguistic bravado which would be quite unintelligible to most readers, there was even a chapter, told in the first person, which so lost me that I still have no clue of the speaker's identity. There is nothing likable or interesting about most characters. Following the plot for the first half of the book is like slamming your head into a wall over and over and over and over... Instead of characters or a compelling storyline driving the narrative, this contains lengthy chapters of bone-numbing dialog, hopeless exposition, deus ex machina, and spontaneous, overly-complex descriptions. The conclusion was drawn out, confused, and hardly satisfying except for the fact that the good guys won (which we knew would happen anyway). The worst part is that one could catch glimpses of so many fabulous and compelling stories and characters just under the surface that would have made this an incredible novel had they been told and focused on instead. It was sheer force of will alone that I finished this book.
4 I wish I had time to give this a little longer review, because there's so much packed into this final story in the Ransom (or Space) Trilogy. Perhaps the most interesting thing is the way Lewis blurs genre throughout the series. You can call the whole series "science fiction," but that's not quite accurate. It best describes the first book Out of the Silent Planet , which Lewis writes as science fiction in the vein of H.G. Wells'The War of the Worlds, but with the intention of communicating a medieval cosmology. The second book Perelandra reads more like a myth. In many ways it's a re-imagining of Milton'sParadise Lost, except in this case, Paradise Retained. That Hideous Strength is a fairy tale, or romance. It's full of academic satire, Arthurian legend, and a critique of scientism and theological liberalism.It's the longest of the three books (longer than the first two combined), and it starts rather slowly. But it's worth trudging through the first 50 pages or so to get into the plot. The characters are thin (that's pretty normal for a fairy tale), but the focus is not in character development, but in ideas and ideologies and the battle between good and evil.Recommended for anyone interested in theology, medieval worldview, Arthurian legend, fairy tales for adults.
4 While not as good Perelandra, That Hideous Strength is certainly worth reading.  Although the first ~40 pages are confusing and a little boring, the story quickly begins to pick up when the frightening designs of the N.I.C.E. are revealed.  Mark, a young sociologist at a British University is offered a higher position with N.I.C.E., a sort-of-facade organization with a dark social agenda.  Most interesting is the progression of thought by which Mark realizes his humanist or materialist presuppositions can lead to some shocking conclusions if followed through to their extreme.  Intertwined are several connected storylines that sometimes delay the suspense of various climaxes within the story.  While this was somewhat annoying, Lewis's witty writing kept me intrigued.  Overall it was interesting how Lewis wove together philosophy with fantasy, and I was amused at his reference to Tolkien's land of Numinor as a historical reality.
5 This was my favorite of the three books in the sci-fi series by CS Lewis.  I think it was my favorite because it was the one of the three I felt was most applicable to my walk as a Christian.  It is very different from the previous two as it takes place on earth and sometime in the distant future.  The atmosphere reminded me a lot of "1984," but with an ending I felt was more consistent with my beliefs as a Christian and a bit more uplifting.  There are a few lines and the stories of the main characters that have stuck with me for a long time.  I strongly recommend this book to Christians or non-Christians - whether you are seeking something a bit deeper your walk with the Lord or simply an everlasting peace in this life filled with fear and uncertainty.
5 I first read this book as a teenager and later as an adult and it still made sense to me, but in completely different ways at both points in my life.  The first two books in this trilogy are good, but only if you really like SF.  This book is a terrific good vs. evil story that makes as much sense today as it did 50 years ago when I was a teenager.
5 This was a gift for a grandson who is currently reading it andsays it is great. He received the entire trilogy.
5 I write from Wisconsin of Feb. 2012. The madness of NICE is all but happening, with mind bending lies and mob violence. However, under and around the nuts from every other state and some other nations I see the edges of the True Nation in the shadows. C.S.Lewis was always a fan of Plato's forms and shadows, and the part about the "true form" of a nation is among the most hopeful things I've ever read. That alone is worth getting the book in whatever form you can.
5 I am in process of rereading this for many times and many years.  Am amazed at its continuing freshness.  I love some of the characters, and the bear is one of my favorites!
4 Originally posted at FanLit. Come visit us!"Nature is the ladder we have climbed up by. Now we kick her away."That Hideous Strength is the final volume of C.S. Lewis's SPACE TRILOGY. This story, which could be categorized as science fiction, dystopian fiction, Arthurian legend, and Christian allegory, is different enough from the previous books, Out of the Silent Planet and Perelandra, that you don't need to have read them, but it may help to vaguely familiarize yourself with their plots. Generally, in the previous stories, Dr. Elwin Ransom has been to both Mars and Venus and discovered that the planets are governed by heavenly beings and that Earth's governor is a fallen angel. These forces are at war and the fate of the universe is at stake.In That Hideous Strength, Ransom is back on Earth and is preparing a group of people who can fight the forces of evil. This evil is manifesting as a corporation called the National Institute of Coordinated Experimentation (N.I.C.E.) which is trying to purchase some wooded property owned by Bracton College at the University of Edgestow in England. To do this, they've had to exert their influence over some of the "progressive" faculty by getting them to buy into their subtle message of saving the human race through (but not obviously yet) sterilization, selective breeding, re-education, and biochemical conditioning. The end-goal, though they only talk about this in the inner circle, is a future in which the working class is no longer needed to support the brains that run the world. NICE wants the talents of the progressive faculty on their side as they generate propaganda, but they also want to recruit some more ancient magic -- they plan to dig up the body of Merlin, which they believe may be buried on the college's property.Dr. Mark Studdock, a sociologist and a new Bracton faculty member who doesn't feel like he quite fits in yet, is tempted to join NICE when they offer him a high-status job. At first Mark is suspicious of the group and their recruitment methods and he's bothered by the vague job description, but their insistence that they need him, their appeal to his vanity, and his low self esteem combine to make their offer seem attractive. Having left Bracton to join the NICE administration, Mark is unaware of the police tactics that NICE is using to make the college town comply with their new order. Meanwhile, also back at Bracton, Mark's new wife, Jane, is having ominous visions. Thinking she may be going crazy, she seeks help and ends up among the group, lead by Dr. Ransom, which is fighting NICE.One thing that C.S. Lewis does so well in this novel is to portray the slippery slope of Mark's gradual slide into evil which is caused by a lack of his own moral compass. Though he doesn't realize it at first, he is foremost a people-pleaser. He wants to increase his status in the eyes of both his colleagues and his wife, and though he's not actually concerned about his character for himself, he wants others to admire him. Wanting to seem both successful (financially and professionally) and of good character, and without any moral grounding of his own, he has no idea how to behave in this situation and eventually succumbs to the pressure. When he becomes better acquainted with NICE's tactics and plans, the cognitive dissonance he feels leads him to wholly embrace the evil. It doesn't help that Mark discovers that even when he tries to be good, there is no natural law that the universe must reward him for it.In contrast, characters who have a stronger sense of self, like Jane, have more concrete ideas about right and wrong and are not as easily influenced or corrupted. Yet Lewis doesn't condemn Mark while wholly commending Jane. Instead, Mark's inferiority complex seems heartbreaking, and Lewis makes Jane, an educated feminist, deal with her hatred of masculinity. Other good characters are forced to examine their own self-righteousness.Another thing that is beautifully done in That Hideous Strength is Lewis' melding of the ancient and new, especially in England's history -- the dark ages with its ancient forest magic, mythical creatures, and irrational superstition, and the new age of rationalism, science and technology. Lewis also speaks eloquently about the difference between organized religion and real spiritual experience. There are also some lovely literary allusions in That Hideous Strength; no fantasy literature lover is likely to miss Lewis' reference to the work of his friend J.R.R. Tolkien.That Hideous Strength is a deeply philosophical novel which, except for the mention of corsets, doesn't feel dated though it was published in 1945. Some readers may not appreciate all the philosophizing, but I am always fascinated by C.S. Lewis' ideas, finding them logical, enlightening, and superbly said. Some of these ideas can be found in his non-fiction works The Abolition of Man, Mere Christianity, God in the Dock, and probably others that I haven't read. That Hideous Strength -- in fact the entire SPACE TRILOGY -- is a profoundly thoughtful and beautiful work of science fiction. I recommend Blackstone Audio's version narrated by Geoffrey Howard.
5 Excluding the Bible and Lord of the Rings, That Hideous Strength is my favorite book.  It is the tale of messed up people in a messed up world, very much like our own.  Yet all that is beautiful and simple prevails over all that is ugly and sophisticated.
2 This is the worst  (and final) book of Lewis' space trilogy. Here, his apparent lack of forethought and organization culminate in "That Hideous Strength" where Lewis seems to drift aimlessly among topics of space travel and other worlds, to British monarchistic nationalism, Arthurian legends, angelology, human psychology, reincarnation, mad scientists, and marriage life.In short, while I enjoyed "Out of the Silent Planet" and gained some pleasure from Perelandra, this final book was a horrible amalgamation of aimless themes, lacked a concise plot, and left the reader (at least this reader) disappointed.
2 I have really enjoyed other C.S. Lewis books so I was excited to read his Sci-Fi Space Trilogy.  I loved the 1st book, it had great story, good charter development and wonderful description of the places.  All that is missing from the 3rd book, so while I hate to say it .... I didn't enjoy this book.I noticed that many people were disappointed that the main charter of the series Ransom plays such a minor role in this book.  I can forgive the fact that he devotes much of the book to a new set of charters.  What is disappointing is that the people were so flat and the story line disconnected.  It suppose to be a battle between good and evil but... none of the characters really do anything to shape the story.  Instead pages are spent on the mundane day to day squabbles, or esoteric commentary on theology.  Dr. Ransom and the main charters are not part of the struggle against evil.  They barely even observe &#34;the battle&#34;.  In addition to being anti-climatic,the allegory/theology/philosophy was also very difficult to follow.Second, all of the fantastic imagination and vivid imagery from the first two books was non-existent in That Hideous Strength.Last I found his portal of women's role very disappointing.  He is overtly sexist and insulting. The female characters are almost entirely subordinated to men; and the book preach obedience as an explicit virtue!  It's absurd.  There is no reason to no reason to empathize with the character of Mark. He is weak, arrogant, self absorbed, immature and frankly stupid.  But Jane who supposedly joins the right side is still suppose to be obedient to her husband who's picked the &#34;wrong&#34; side.If you feel you have to finish the series, good luck and prepare to be disappointed
4 Perhaps not the BEST of C. S. Lewis' works, but a good one nonetheless.  I was introduced to the 'space trilogy' as a teenager by my father, a minister.  He thought I would enjoy the SciFi aspect and maybe glean some ethical education in the meantime.  He was correct.  This was not the most fun of the trilogy to read, but a good ending to the trilogy.  If you are looking for classic SciFi with good moral values, the 'space trilogy' is definitely worth a look.
5 This is a very unusual book--as it says, a fairy tale for adults. The fantasy doesn't even start until later. Then it gets weird, horrible, funny, but still as applicable today in symbolism as it was in C.S. Lewis' time.
5 RECEIVED FREE COPY FROM LIBRARYA smart writer, Lewis saved the best for last in his space and time triology. He ties ancient Celt and Roman legend into a modern day state acting as God on earth.
5 As with Patrick McGoohan's THE PRISONER, THAT HIDEOUS STRENGTH anticipates our age of overwhelming but clumsy surveillance and moral confusion, reminding us that progress is not necessarily improvement.  Lewis wrote this book during World War II, and feared that England would in peacetime not be free of the top-heavy and bullying organizations of war time, including the semi-autonomous institutions with apparently endless funding and authority, but not any responsibility or even an identifiable hierarchy or address.The National Institute of Co-ordinated Experiments (or N.I.C.E.) is a brilliant realization of the most dysfunctional, vicious workplace anyone has suffered, treachery camouflaged with perhaps the first reference ever to a corrupt and even satanic organization as a "family."Throw in Merlin, and, yes, it's something of a stew, but a brilliant one.Although THAT HIDEOUS STRENGTH is the final part of Lewis' space trilogy, it is not set in space and is not dependent on the other parts for exposition and can be read alone.
4 The N.I.C.E. (Nat'l Inst. for Controlled Experiments) wants that part of Bracton College's land that is said to contain the body of Merlin. Mark Studdock is drawn into the N.I.C.E, whose temporary headquarters are  elsewhere, even as his wife Jane sees at first hand the things the N.I.C.E  is doing. The two follow different paths throughout the book, each on  different sides without realizing it. And it turns out that Merlin never  really died, and furthermore, really was buried at Bracton College....The  plot is much more complex than that, but that's the skeleton, stripped  completely of flesh so as not to give away any surprises. The  characterizations are good--some great. Jane is good--Mark is much better;  literature has seldom had such a likeable twerp. Feverstone, Curry, Dimble,  Ivy, the tramp, are all good. (McPhee, criticised as being 'unidimensional'  by a previous reviewer, is, ironically enough, based on a man Lewis knew  well.) Some of the best parts of the book are those that describe the  politicking that goes on at Bracton and at N.I.C.E, and amusing little  comments are strewn regularly throughout the text. However, the same  previous reviewer is right on the mark in saying that the change in Ransom  is both disappointing and unexplained, and I personally find some of  Lewis's remarks on men and women grating. Some are funny, as when Jane  wonders when Mark will really be back, thinking, 'for when men say that  they will be away two days they mean that that is the minimum, and they  hope to be away a week.'The way Jane despises women who shop for a new hat  to comfort themselves and then turns right around and does the same thing  is good too. What grates is the author's placid assumption, not that  masculinity is good, but that it is the highest good, and that good  spiritual beings grow more masculine as they grow more spiritual and  perfect. That sort of thing can be ignored, however, especially on the  second time through, and it's a rare reader who won't want ot read this  book again. And then again.
3 This is the third and concluding book in Lewis's "Cosmic Trilogy".  In it, Professor Ransom, the protagonist of the first two tales, is a secondary (but vital) character.  This story, unlike the first two, which range from Mars to Venus, takes place in then-contemporary England, at a small university.It is, like the others, a not-very-subtle moral allegory; in fact, it is so direct that it is scarcely an allegory at all.  It is frightening, in a literal sense, to realize that the over-the-top caricatures Lewis uses for his "bad guys" are become, in our times, so close to plausible as to give one the chills.As ever, Lewis ends up with a hammer-banging delivery of his moral, but the entire tale is so surreal that it scarcely harms the telling.The book is decent reading on its own, and essential if you have read the two that come before it.
5 This book is fun to read, satisfying, thought-provoking--everything you'd want in a book. The storytelling is suspenseful, and you are so curious to know what happens next. What does happen next always feels believable, and logical, even though it is unexpected. To me, this book is the epitome of reading entertainment, while, as usual with a C.S. Lewis book, it delivers a deeper understanding of spiritual truths.
5 In this, the final of his space trilogy, we see Lewis' predictions of what would/will happen if man blindly follows &#34;pure reason&#34; into a &#34;brave new world.&#34;  I love the mix of science and faith.  Who would have thought of Merlin in such an environment?  This is a lovely wrap-up for Dr. Ransom and his expanded band of followers.  Brave new world indeed.
5 One of C.S. Lewis' lesser known series but definitely well worth the purchase and read.  This was in great condition as well.
5 This is a fascinating book and story that must be read all the way through book three in the series to be truly understood. Once I realized what it was truly about, it became much easier to wade through the diversions that are set up with too much going on about minute details and the thoughts of the characters.  More action would have pleased me but I guess I am just accustomed to the masters of those kinds of books.One needs to remember that it was written so long ago that the prose is, to me, cumbersome and Lewis goes on and on about things philosophizing at great length about the smallest issue. I felt I had to stick with it in spite of this because by the time I began to see this, I had already invested too much time in the reading of it.I enjoyed this last book in the series more than the first two.
4 C.S. Lewis does a great job throughout the space trilogy in communicating deep, complex ideas through fiction. He will always be my favorite author.
5 Silly heading, but nobody reads them anyway.  I think.  The third and last book in the trilogy (you did read the others, right?) and about as far from science fiction as you can possibly get . . . there's a definite shift, Lewis seems to be bringing in more fantasy and religious allegorical elements as the series continued, with the end result here.  The tale is subtitled &quot;A Fairy Tale for Grown-Ups&quot; and that's what it boils down to.  If you're like me, you'll have read this right after reading the other two books (which were great, by the way) and you'll be immediately confused.  Instead of focusing on the nifty Dr Ransom, you get a young couple Mark and Jane.  Jane's having weird dreams that keep coming true and Mark isn't really paying attention because he's trying to get into the political &quot;circles&quot; as the local university where he works.  However, little does he know that evil is lurking there and the folks are plotting some very dark things.  Herein comes the good guys and after being introduced to lots o' supporting characters, some of which are interesting, some less so, you finally meet the man himself: Ransom.  The problem I have, and this has been said elsewhere, is that he's apparently the &quot;Pendragon&quot; (but also the Fisher King . . . weren't they two different people?) but there's absolutely no explanation as to how that happened.  Lewis probably figured it wasn't important and not relevant to the story itself, heck, Ransom's discussion of how he inherited the mantle of the Pendragon is basically tossed off in one sentence.  The first half of the book mostly focuses on the college and the dread blokes there, but when Ransom and company shows up finally, things get very trippy indeed.  Perelandra was a strange novel because of setting but I could deal with that, Lewis piles so much allegory on the plot that it gets almost ridiculous.  And then Merlin shows up.  That's right.  Merlin.  He's kinda fun actually but much like Ransom becomes, he's little more than a voice, you don't get any indication of his motivations.  All that said though, this is a nifty way to end the series, the climax left me a little flat, especially after the buildup in the first two books (Merlin makes some stuff happen and the gods blow some stuff up) but Lewis' mastery of the English language saves this completely, this guy was passionate about this novel and you can tell, it crackles from every page and you can really feel it toward the end in almost every word.  There's a nice &quot;Britishness&quot; about the book as well, a sense of the sheer age of Britain and its history.  The ending is kind and gentle and you're left with a good feeling when you finish the book.  If you don't like Lewis for his &quot;preachiness&quot; then stay far away if you don't like thinking, because he's using this more to illustrate a point more than anything else, but it's fine writing and a fine cap to an interesting series.  And for those of you who started reading this series because it was science fictional, don't stop now, y'all could stand to read something different every once in a while.  It won't hurt.  Really.
4 [Throughout the years, I have written a number of reviews that have never been published online on Amazon. These writings comprise two types of reviews: unfinished reviews, abandoned during various stages of composition, and completed reviews that for life reasons were never posted. Of the later type, back in September 2001 I wrote a cache of work, a full sixteen reviews of several different C. S. Lewis books which have never been released. I am publishing these reviews now for the first time, over a decade after they were initially written.  Mike London 10-3-2012]"That Hideous Strength", the third volume in Lewis's "Space Trilogy", stands as central novel of his that gives me the most pleasure in reading it. While "Till We Have Faces" is certainly his best work, "That Hideous Strength" is the central novel in my own imagination that I most sympathize with in terms of where I want to go with my own fiction.There is so much in "That Hideous Strength" that absolutely fascinates me, and much of the themes I also want to deal with in my own fiction. The abuse of language stands as one of the most terrifying elements in the novel. Wither stands as one of my personal favorites on the side of the N. I. C. E, as does Fairy Hardcastle. Wither is very developed and incredibly diabolical, and Fairy is a very masculine woman involved in sadistic police torture. The Nazis have a very strong place in this work. Much of the more hideous and hellish scenes in this book comes from the inclusion of the N. I. C. E as the dominant villainy that works evil throughout the text. Much of what they want to do tie into the Nazi movements, and each are equally terrible.The inclusion of Merlin makes it a much more interesting text, for there is the key theme of Nature against Anti-Nature, and Merlin very much is in harmony with Nature. What makes this such a strong work is that each group parallels the other, and wherever there is a vision of total evil there also stands an equally dramatic picture of that which is good.One thing that the critics seem to really harp on is the fact that this text has such a complex structure, but for myself that is one of the most exciting things about it. It is the fact that Lewis manages such a huge cast of characters, and does so rather well, that makes this one of my favorite of his novels, and certainly my pick for the Space Trilogy.While I respect "Perelandra" and find it a very fine artistic effort, it is this book that I keep picking up to reread when I make my jaunts through Lewis's imaginative gauntlets. This is truly the most fascinating of the "Space Trilogy".(These reviews covered all seven books of "The Chronciles of Narnia", the three novels of "The Space Trilogy", "The Abolition of Man", "The Four Loves", "A Preface to Paradise Lost", a revised version of my 2000 review of "Till We Have Faces", "Surprised By Joy", and "The Screwtape Letters". I have published newly written reviews of "The Space Trilogy" composed long after I wrote the three original reviews of Lewis's science fiction.)..-----[In Late 1999 or early 2000 I also wrote this abandoned, unfinished review to "That Hideous Strength"]The first time I've heard of the trilogy, it was from a pastor's wife.  I was only then reading THE LORD OF THE RINGS (this was back in 1994), and I decided I would try it.  Being a fan of Narnia (although I do not like Lion nearly as much as the others), I figured this would be good also.THAT HIDEOUS STRENGHT, which is longer than the other two books combined, is a book like no other I've read.  Its main weakness is it jumps from modern to mythical too soon.  It is a novel of ideas, and then at the climax the story becomes mythical, with a violent ending.  Also, Lewis assumes to much of the readers on the matter of Merlin.  Merlin was an incubus, and had no father.
4 The final volume of Lewis's Space Trilogy is a major departure from the first two volumes, which really serve as a prologue for this novel, wherein the forces of God and Satan (or their allegorical equivalents) face off in final battle.Dr. Ransom, the hero of the first two books is a secondary - although quite significant character - in this book, and he doesn't even appear till over a hundred pages have passed.  Instead, the story focuses on Jane and Mark, a newly married couple with difficulties already developing in their relationship.Although they are a couple, they are apart for most of the book, each involved in their own adventures.  Mark is lured into the service of the sinister organization NICE, where he is convinced to do small services that seem legitimate enough but are designed to further their agenda.  Meanwhile, Jane, plagued by clairvoyant visions, winds up joining with Dr. Ransom's group, which is out to save the world from NICE.Jane and Mark, physically separated and emotionally estranged, find themselves also on opposite sides in a cosmic conflict between good and evil.  Although this is a high-stakes battle, it is not overly supernatural, as the forces of good and evil operate with human agents/pawns.  And Lewis is not as interested in the adventure aspects of his story as using it as a vehicle for presenting certain theological (especially Christian) concepts in an entertaining manner.The end result is a story that is a bit dry in spots but generally good.  This story is more sophisticated than the Narnia books, which are aimed towards a younger audience, but this trilogy is also not as much fun as the Chronicles of Narnia.  If you read this trilogy expecting Narnia, you may be disappointed, as you will if you are expecting what is normally considered science fiction.  On the other hand, if you want to read a thought-provoking fictional work, this may be to your liking.
5 A truly stunning book! Interesting how this book seems to be getting either 5 stars or 1 star. Like the story itself, there is polarization, no middle ground. This satirical comedy blends brilliant characters with an  accelerating plot. The BEST thing is the true-life charecterization of the  &quot;bad guys&quot; and the &quot;good guys&quot;. Modern 2-D writers  paint the bad guys as blatent, psycopathic killers from the get-go. Lewis'  bad guys are killers in disguise: socially acceptable, educated  sophisticates who have literally duped themselves and they all distrust and  despise each other. The good guys (i.e., &quot;fat Mrs. Dimble saying her  prayers&quot;) are human, but trying really hard to do right.The  second-best thing is all the spiritual/biblical parallels and symbols. It  makes a powerful backdrop for Christians and a nagging echo, with a ring of  truth, for atheists (or what Lewis called, &quot;materialists&quot;).The  third-best thing was comedy. This was the funniest book I've ever read, but  it's really not a comedy, no matter how you slice it. I can't remember the  last time a mere book brought laughter to the point of tears and loss of  bodily function (real-Merlin-fake Merlin and the banquet speeches at  Belbury). Read 'em and weep.
4 Shall I throw this book across the room because its plot hinges on forcing its heroine to accept her &quot;proper role&quot; as a woman in the mainstream Christianity of the era in which Lewis wrote it? Or shall I enjoy it on its own terms? I had to make up my mind about that as soon as I realized where the author was taking me, and at that point I put it aside overnight. With bookmark removed, because I intended to return it whence it was borrowed without reading further.I found my place again the next evening, and I kept on. I'm glad I did. While certainly I didn't wind up persuaded that birth control is an evil that prevents &quot;preordained&quot; conceptions from taking place, nor did I buy for a minute the notion that Jane Studdock could only gain both salvation and happiness by abandoning her doctoral thesis for a life of childbearing, I found the rest of the book thoroughly entertaining as a dark science fantasy. Lewis's wit more than redeems the rather heavy-handed allegory that the plot doesn't pretend to cloak. He takes myth and Christian doctrine, and settings and characters from his own time and place, and weaves it all together into a fast-moving and memorable tale. If he had only known the first thing about women, instead of sounding always like a bachelor uncle...or if only, as in &quot;Out of the Silent Planet,&quot; he'd had the good sense not to attempt writing them as major characters.
3 The third book was a disappointment. I was expecting something completely different. The first part of the book was introducing people who weren't in the first two books and I had a hard time following who was who and how they fit in with the folks in the other two books. I wasn't able to figure out who this odd character was with the bleeding foot or if he was a main character or not until he was called by another name somewhere in the middle of the book. But I am sure the folks that like mysteries, would figure this out rather quickly. Anyway, this was not my style of book.
3 Now that I've finished this book, I still want more explanation about what happened. (*spoiler alert*) At the end we only hear about the final battle, we don't get to observe it, and then everyone goes their separate ways.... I want to know what happened and why! It was difficult to get into the story in the first place until we meet Ransom again, and then I was hooked - finally a familiar story line! But then I felt the ending lacking a final wrap-up of what actually happened. Unless I was supposed to depend on information from the previous 2 books which I don't remember very well. I know there's some great literature in here somewhere, it's just a little beyond me. As always, CS Lewis writes with incredible insight and understanding of the human condition, though I'm a little concerned about the horror-filled images of the evil characters in this story. Someday I'm going to give these books another try and maybe it will all relate a bit better.
5 Having enjoyed this novel again and again for a generation, I believe that it is prophetic and even more relevant today than when it was written.  Now that recent filmings of Lord of the Ring and the first Narnia book have delighted critics and the public alike, is it too much to hope for a high-quality cinematic version someday of _That Hideous Strength_? Lewis would be most pleased, I daresay, if any such adaptation were set in our own time, because we need its messsage now.By the time Mark Studdock arrives at Belbury, he is a confirmed brown-nose with considerable experience in pursuing his life's ambition: joining the esoteric Inner Circle of whatever.  It is striking, then, how much difficulty he has in the NICE even determining who is in this group.  Feverstone, Filostrato, Hardcastle, and Straik, for instance,  all confide to him that their own respective purviews are of the institute's essence, while various other departments are peripheral or merely for public consumption.  By the end of the book, the chaos proclaims that none of these figures, nor anyone else, is effectively in charge.In this respect, Lewis brilliantly anticipated insights that the late William Stringfellow would articulate in the 1960s and 70s: that institutions are among the contemporary world's most characteristic manifestations of the demonic "powers and principalities" mentioned in the Bible.  They inevitably take on lives of their own and go off the rails.  Eventually they justify any and all means towards the end of their own survival and hegemony.  They enslave and "deplete the personhood of" every human being involved with them-- even (and perhaps especially) those who imagine that they are in control.Of course, the church as an institution being hardly exempt from these problems, clergy would react to Stringfellow's analysis with hostility proportionate to their power.  Ironically, the works of this theologian long lay in unread obscurity in seminary: while students in, of all places, law school continued to turn to them when they wanted to learn how corporate structures really operate.  As we 21st-century Americans find ourselves steeped in the waking nightmare of an unfolding vindication of Stringfellow's prophetic thought, it is heartening at least to see a growing interest in it-- books lately republished and his ideas taken up and further developed e.g. by Walter Wink.  For an illustrative novel, however, _That Hideous Strength_, written by C.S. Lewis some 25 years earlier, may yet be unsurpasssed.Some commentators have incomprehensibly indicated that the NICE people were materialists.  Pas du tout. They are probably ex-materialists, but by the time we meet them are devotees of the occult.  The reader grasps the inevitability of this progression.  As Muggeridge (and perhaps Chesterton earlier) observed, those who cease to believe in God don't believe in nothing.  Rather, before long they'll believe in anything.  Lewis must have been aware of the occult dabbling practiced by high-level Nazi figures.  While there are always atheistic individuals, it is unlikely, despite their best efforts, that their grandchildren will inherit a trait that requires so much mental assiduity to maintain.  There have been no viable large atheistic societies. The Belburians, however, present themselves as materialists and are not prepared, and would probably never be prepared, to publicize their real allegiance: it is esoteric, elite, and exclusive by its very nature, not to be shared by the likes of you and me.Sitting in the garden, one of them exclaims, "Bloody racket those birds make!"  Such a sentiment is revealing and chacteristic of one who, as the novel describes in detail, far from being a materialist, has cultivated a disgust for all things physical and who dreams of transcending it.  Add this trait to a quest for esoteric knowledge and we have the two most classic marks of the gnostic.I have no doubt that Lewis intended the book partly as a warning against this mode of thought, which Christian orthodoxy has found profoundly and decisively incompatible.  He illustrates what kind of people are tempted to take it up, why they do so, and to what bad ends it will lead. Since Lewis's death, it has become fashionable among post-modernists and certain feminists to express their pique and scorn for Christianity by affecting a sympathetic reconsideration of gnosticism, suggesting that its eclipse was only an historical accident or the effect of a political power play.  We could do with this book as an antidote.
5 Even though I read this book many times, it get better with age.  The excitement, and even the horror remains, read after read.  This is Lewis' &#34;failed&#34; attempt, according to him, to complete the Space Trilogy.  He was dissatisfied, but it has be come the favorite of a large part of his reader audience.  Can be read alone, but I recommend buying the entire set.
4 After reading or rereading the first two excellent books in C. S. Lewis's Space Trilogy-- Out of the Silent Planet and Perelandra -- it is almost impossible to keep from reading this book, its conclusion.  Unfortunately, while the first two grow better with each rereading, this one grows more tedious.  Mind you if you have never read it, do so.  I am just suggesting that it is the weakest link.  Lewis needs no praise and will not be diminished by any adverse criticism from me.  He is intelligent, insightful, psychologically acute, imaginative, clever, urban, witty and literate, and everyone knows it.  It is just that in this book he does it all a bit too much.  This is the story of an impeding battle between the forces of good and evil.  But what a cast of characters: archangelic beings, macrobes, a contraceptive subterranean lunar race, the Fisher King who is also Pendragon, a seeress of the House of Tudor, Merlin, magic out of Numinor the true West, a fortune inherited from an Indian Christian mystic, a Scottish skeptic, a menagerie of animals, earthly avatars of heavenly spirits, an institute the figurative and literal Head of which is a decapitated or rather decorporated mad scientist through which unearthly powers speak, and Withers the dithering deputy director who is so vague and obscurantist that one wonders how people in the evil institute (with the ironic acronymic name of NICE) even manage to put on their pants in the morning never mind engineer the extinction of the whole human race and the conquest of the entire universe.  Add to all these of course the merely human elements of brutal police, ambitious and pretentious academics, narrow minded politicians and scientists.  Lewis seems to want to pull it all together in one volume; he has everything here except moderation.  And when the denouement comes, less than a handful of the evil are really in on it all, and almost none of the good forces are really needed.  It is all very anticlimactic.  There is a clever description of the politics of a small college, and a good recognition scene where Pendragon discovers himself to Merlin, and an initialllly enjoying citation of the maundering style of Withers (which CS seems to have so delighted in that he persisted in presenting it all through the text until it eventually becomes vastly annoying).  Lots of insights too on every one of his favorite topics and pointed criticism on all his pet peeves, but do they all really need to be gathered here together?  As in Perelandra this is an explicitly and essentially Christian book, possibly making the work of less appeal to readers who do not share that faith.  And his attitude to the feminine, perhaps acceptable in his own day, is just too patronizing today.  As I say, do read it, but it is by far the weakest of the three books.
5 This is among one of these best books I've ever read.  Part novel, part horror, part science fiction, part theology, this book blew me away bis sheer creativity and originality.  What a sanctified imagination!  This was the last of Lewis's works on my checklist to read them all.  The space trilogy is one of his best kept secrets.I will return to this book again and again.
2 Taken by itself - which can be done without much issue - this is a good book.  However, when positioned as the third installment of the Space Trilogy, it is a square peg being placed in a round hole.  There are a number of things about this book that break the harmony with Out of the Silent Planet and Perelandra.1.  Dr. Ransom is not the central figure of the story.  There are vague references to him earlier in the book, but it is at almost the halfway point that we see Ransom interact with the rest of the characters.  Some may find this similar to the way The Two Towers is written, but the big difference between the two is that all but one of the characters in The Hideous Strength are brand new.  Even Devine is going by a different name.  At least in The Two Towers, you were reading about familiar characters for the first half.2.  The number of characters in this story is significantly large in comparison to the other two books in the trilogy.  You meet as many characters in Bracton alone as you see in the entire length of Perelandra.  That doesn't even take into consideration the characters at Logres and the N.I.C.E.  This seems to take away from the cohesiveness of the Trilogy and almost detaches it from the other two stories.3.  The role of the Oyarsa is quite different.  Given that the story is set on Earth, this is somewhat expected.  However, never having them speak just doesn't seem fair after their involvement in the other two stories.  Lewis should have let the Oyarsa from Mercury and Saturn impart wisdom as Mars and Venus did.Again, this *is* a good book if you take it by itself.  There are even some things related about the differences between men and women that are quite funny but true.  Look for MacPhee's comparison of how the two sexes use nouns.  Married people will get a chuckle.  However, given that this is supposed to conclude a trilogy, it really fails in that regard.  If you are expecting something that performs like Return of the King, you will be quite disappointed.
5 This work deserves to be understood in the context of works like "1984" and "Brave New World."  More than strictly "science fiction," it is a dystopia written during World War II with a profound grasp of Totalitarianism and Communism.  The book is packed with social and spiritual insight ranging from marriage, academic life, moral education, Humanism, human frailty, to the dangers of political power gone too far.Many C.S. Lewis fans will read this with Narnia or the first two science fiction works in mind, and this reviewer encourages them to not do so.  As other reviewers have noted, it is a confusion if not a disappointment if read with the wrong expectations.  Though some of the characters and themes are carried over from the first two science fiction books, it stands by itself.It is my opinion that there is a great deal to learn from the good dystoipas and that they are neglected to our own detriment.  This is one of the great ones and is something to be soaked in and learned from.
5 The culmination of Lewis' trilogy though written over 60 years ago has chilling parallels in our culture today.  Enjoyed the unexpected 'solution' and the treatment of certain 'historical' characters.  I recommend the entire trilogy, but only for a thinking reader.
5 Lewis brings his space trilogy back to the planet Earth for this final installment. Since Ransom is back on earth, the tone of the book loses the "fantastic" nature of the previous two novels. However, Lewis's main theme is still the same: good in its battle against evil. Here evil initially takes more recognizable forms before growing into more extreme forms (I don't want to give anything away). He warns against many forms of evil that were then just beginning to appear but have now reached fruition. Though Lewis obviously has a passionate agenda (what great writer doesn't?), he doesn't lose the narrative. It is again an original novel and a horrifying vision of what evil is capable of and how good must find the courage to oppose evil.
3 While this book had all the elements that I loved in the previous two books (satire, allegory, poetic description), it was really lacking the cohesion of the other two and was generally a disappointing end to the Space Trilogy 3 Book Set Out of the Silent Planet, Perelandra & That Hideous Strength C.S. Lewis. Lewis seems very caught up in the politics of academia for the first third of the book, and then suddenly remembers the fantasy genre. The last third of the book features a rather anti-climactic battle that seemed to be a pastiche of several different mythologies.All that said, there is still a lot of value in the book. There are some deftly drawn characters unlike anything I've read in other literature of the 1940s. Lewis' investigation of the complexities of marriage, while it does not go far enough, asks important questions that blend faith and sociology in provocative ways.If you have readOut of the Silent Planet (Space Trilogy, Book One)andPerelandra (Space Trilogy, Book 2)I would recommend that you finish the trilogy, if for no other reason than plot continuity. I will say that this book does not stand alone as one of Lewis' better works.
2 Book could not hold my interest until the middle to end. Too wordy to the point that the reader wants to skip pages to get to the meat of the story
5 That Hideous Strength. That power of evil that desires to bring everything into submission to it. That draws men in to it, until they will have nothing else.In this fantastic close to C.S. Lewis's Space Trilogy, we continue to follow the activities of Ransom, as he and his friends fight a spiritual battle against the forces of evil. This time, the battle is on Earth, were a new organization, the National Institute of Coordinated Experiments (N.I.C.E), consults with demons through a terrible creature, and snakes its tentacles of influence into every aspect of England --- politics, religion, history, education, justice, and science --- all in the name of a better world. It also follows the struggles of a recently married couple, Mark and Jane Studdock, as Mark goes into the employ of N.I.C.E., and Jane joins the resistance.This climactic book follows in the tradition of its predecessors(Out of the Silent Planet, Perelandra), as it describes everyday occasions and phenomenal events with perfect imagery and cunning wit. You will be left wishing for more, and yet at the same time find yourself grateful that C.S. Lewis chose to give us a concise, refined, and matchless series in the Space Trilogy.Ryan RobledoAuthor of the Aelnathan:
5 Written in the 1940s, growing out of the English experiences of the Second World War, Lewis's trilogy is truer today than it was then.  I first read these books in the 1970s editions of The Macmillan Company, and did not have any idea how prophetic they were.  While we have yet to travel to either Mars or Venus, that is becoming more and more likely with every passing year, although we may not EXPECT to find what Professor Ransom found there.  However, the final volume of this trilogy, &#34;That Hideous Strength&#34; brings to bear all that Lewis saw occurring in England in regards to morality, philosophy, capitalism, and  the environment.  Presaging what has today come to be called neoliberalism, Lewis in this volume describes an Earth that is in the process of being subjugated by a national corporation (N.I.C.E.) which is the forerunner of soulless capitalism, precisely the animal the OCCUPY movement protested against.  With total disregard for the spiritual needs of humanity or the damage caused to the environment by their projects, N.I.C.E. intentionally destroys a small college town in the heart of England, searching for a mystical power that will grant them eternal life, a mere precursor to their intent for the entire planet.  Over the millennia, Earth has been sealed away from the other planets by a dark force, and humanity has been kept from the truth about the true nature of humanity and God.  The mindless capitalists, under the sway of this dark force, almost bring about our complete destruction.  Save for the intervention of Lewis' hero, a humanized Christ by the name of Ransom, the dark powers are defeated in a dramatic and bloody final conflict.  Drawing heavily from Biblical themes, Lewis describes a world of the 1940s.  He could have had no idea how closely what he described would more closely parallel the world of today than the world from which he took his subject.  This series, written at roughly the same time as his friend's &#34;Lord of the Rings&#34; trilogy, dealt with similar themes, but from a much more philosophical and religious standpoint.  This series is NOT at all like Lewis' juvenile Narnia series, although both draw heavily from Biblical themes.  The final book of the trilogy is one of the most significant I have read in quite a while, and ranks up there with Heinlein's &#34;Stranger in a Strange Land&#34; as among the five best of this genre.
4 I enjoyed this book.  As the third part of the Space Trilogy, it is VERY different in style.  Whereas the first two basically follow the adventures of the main character Ransom on other planets, this one is set on earth, and follows a much larger set of characters with a more complex plot.  It reads much more like a contemporary novel, switching between multiple threads of the plot, from several different character's points of view.Relative to the other two novels, this plot is downright labyrinthine, with a grand conspiracy to take over Britain and ultimately the world.  On the surface this is a secular progressive movement, but below the surface are demonic elements (the dark eldila that we learn about in the previous books).  Supernatural elements aside, the crazy plot with conspiracies within conspiracies reminds me of a Robert Ludlum novel (of course predating Ludlum by a few decades), and also (like classic Ludlum) the body count gets pretty high.  Some of the occult elements of the conspiracy, and some of the serious-silliness also reminded me a bit of "Foucalt's Pendulum", although from a very different point of view from that novel.  The whole plot is rather melodramatic, almost campy, and in parts Lewis's writing is rather cheeky, but this is also interspersed with more straightforward CS Lewis insights and thoughts into this, that, or the other thing (he's surprisingly insightful on marriage and relationships for a man who was a bachelor for most of his life).  At times the plot suffers a bit under its own weight - there are some little strands that don't really go anywhere, and some characters that don't really matter, and some loose ends that don't quite get tied up.  Lewis clearly likes his animal characters, but I found all the stuff with the bear and the other critters a bit silly and overdone.  I also think the story could have been tighter as a standalone novel, without it being part of the "Space Trilogy" mythos, with the eldila and Oyeresu and Ransom and what not.As with the first two parts of the trilogy, a central theme is the dangers of "Modernism" or "Progressivism".  With the larger cast of characters (vs just Weston as the main antagonist in the first two), Lewis gets to skewer many more caricatures of Modern thought.  His main target remains scientific Materialism, but the bad guys include all manner of "Progressive" sociological thought (circa 1940s).  It is striking how much of it rings true today, like we're still having the same debates, and the materialists and progressives of today are not that far removed from those of Lewis's day.  I also thought Mark Studdock was an interesting character; I think he symbolizes all of Lewis's fears and suspicions of young academics (Lewis was a fairly senior professor by the time he published this).  Studdock is thoroughly Modern in every respect, and as a result is continuously buffeted and blown about, going one direction and then another, always on the outside trying to be on the inside of something, anything.  There's a quote, I'm not sure about the real attribution, about not being so open-minded that your brain falls out, and I think this is what Lewis has in mind with his portrain of Studdock.  As I've read through the Space Trilogy, I really get the feeling that a lot of the characters and philosophies that Lewis disdains are drawn directly from Lewis's experiences with his fellow academics.  It really comes through in this book - you get the feeling that Lewis wrote large parts of this book while sitting through interminable faculty meetings at Oxford.An interesting little tidbit is that Lewis borrows (or perhaps appropriates?) his friend Tolkien's concept of Numinor (Lewis's acknowledgment at the start of the book is amusing!)  Now Lewis's book was published probably 6 or 8 years before The Lord of the Rings, and I suspect that the way Lewis ties in Numinor fairly literally with both our contemporary history as well as (for the purposes of this novel) a "historical" Arthurian Britain is probably not what Tolkien envisioned.  It's a very minor part of the book (Numinor is mentioned by name only a couple of times) but I do wish Lewis would have skipped that, or just made up a different name for a mythical prehistorical age that fit the conception in this story.
4 This is the end of the trilogy, for the first time entirely on earth.  It is a fun story of earthy corruption, with lots of Christian details, and some surprise figures like Merlin.  But ultimately, it is a good story that does not do much really new.  So if you are a fan of Lewis, which I am, it is a pleasure to reach the end.  What really distinguishes this is the elegant writing.  Lewis was a master of prose and theme.  But I did enjoy the first two much much more as path-breaking if amateur scifi.Recommended for fans.  They will not be disappointed.  But readers in search of hard and origianl sci fi will not find much to love.
5 The efforts by spiritually dead men to harness evil brings results they'd never anticipated...each of the three books in Lewis' Space Trilogy can stand alone...but are best when read in order
5 If you like C. S. Lewis you will LOVE these books. This is the last of three science fiction stories written by C. S. Lewis. Not so geared towards children. But still great story telling from an amazing author.
4 C.S. Lewis's book "That Hideous Strength" has good lines, lots of good lines.  It deftly analyzes many of the problems of modern secular relationships and the secular state.  But the ending is a complete deus ex machina.  The killing off of all the various "evil" characters also feels a bit sadistic at times.  There's never much suspense about how it will end.  This might have been less of a problem if I was reading it as the conclusion of the trilogy, but Lewis says in the introduction that this can be read on it's own, if less profitably.  The emphasis should probably be on "less profitably".
2 The conclusion to the trilogy, "Out of the Silent Planet" and "Perelandra".  It can be read on its own, but there are moments when it was helpful to have read the previous two.  "Perelandra" is by far the best of the three.  I was disappointed there was no closure to the story.  Lewis makes mincemeat of our feeble minds.  His insights are amazing and his concept of the world beyond is exquisite.  The English dialect can be slightly aggravating.The novel is centered around a university now owned and run by a group of intellectuals set out to change the world by the creation of a "new man".  They created this new world order front to rid the world of undesirables, evoke a revolution upon the earth, and enforce a police state.  The "worldly" Ransom is back, but not as one of the main characters.  Instead, chosen is a man that is hired on by the university and his wife (who has dreams that are actually real), will together (though conditions separate them) create this "new man".Wish you wellScott
3 For the first half, at least, it is an absorbing look at the lure of power  and the ever-unfolding &quot;Inner Ring&quot; (see that essay in the Weight  of Glory compilation).  Wither in particular is a chilling entity, one of  the great characterizations.  The novel  lost me later on when it explained  too much about Belbury, and then simultaneously confused me with the (far)  less interesting goings on at St. Anne's.  Here is a novel crying out to be  excised and adapted into a great film, but alas, who is out there to film  it?  Speaking generally, Hollywood is unqualified to do anything but make a  mess of it.
5 This was by far my favorite of the trilogy (Perlandria was my least).  First off, it is almost a misnomer to call them a trilogy.  The style, feel, and even genre of this book is different than the other two.  Lewis says that in the introduction, reading the other two is not even required to read this one (although it certainly does help, and I recommend very highly doing so).A lot of people are quick to criticize this book for the occasional slow part, the lack of focus on the main character of the other two, and having too much philosophy and ideals stuffed into too small a space.My main comment is that this book has to be read slowly.  Lewis calls it a "Fairy tale for grown ups", but it is much more. There is so much philosophy, theology, social commentary and satire in there that if read as a quick fling sci fi or fantasy book, most of the point of it is missed.  It encapsulates post-war england in a way that is truly striking: the hopes, the fears, the cynicism.I read this fast the first time, and thought a lot of it was kinda slow, but the end was great (but should have been longer), and that was that.  But for some reason, in the years since I had read it the first time, it kept popping up in my mind.  Situations from it would come out of nowhere, and whisper lessons to my mind.So, I just re-read it, but with much more intensity of thought, and time, and have completely fallen in love.  It borders on the prophetic, in its strongest parts.  And those are not in the action parts.  The messages it bears are legion, if we are careful enough to listen!
4 Lewis's writing these days is widely regarded as of exclusive interest to the God Squad and that is a pity.  Certainly this is a work of pretty straightforward religious propaganda, a supernatural thriller written by someone who takes the supernatural stuff with the utmost seriousness but, hey, so is "The Exorcist" and that needn't disqualify it from entertaining the unconverted.This novel is the last and the only earthbound instalment of Lewis's Space trilogy. It's a theological; thriller in which the forces of darkness are seeking to destroy humanity through the agency of the sinister National Institute for Co-ordinated Experiments or NICE.The plot had two distinct threads. One involves Mark Studdock, a young don at the rather All-Souls-like Bracton College in the fictitious English town of Edgestow (which Lewis in a preface insists is not based on Durham). Mark is a weak man with a desperate desire for recognition and inclusion and is all to easily sucked into the unpleasant world of NICE. He fondly imagines they are headhunting him in recognition of his many talents but in fact they are mainly interested in him as a way to get at his wife, Jane, whose visionary dreams they perceive, rightly, as a threat. And Jane is the subject of the second plot line. While Mark is being sucked in to the world of the baddies at their headquarters at Belbury, a former blood transfusion centre, Jane is falling in with the goodies, a disparate band of desperately nice people at the manor at St Anne's, under the leadership of the charismatic Director, the Ransom of "Out of the Silent Planet" and "Perelandra".The St Anne's parts of the story are the less impressive. Ransom has been turned by his experiences on Mars and Venus into an outrageously charismatic, ageless and near-superhuman religious leader who is really a lot less interesting than the very human Ransom of the earlier stories and who spends most of his time delivering rather dull and condescending anti-feminist lectures to Jane. (We are constantly told she would ordinarily have found such lectures insufferable but he is just so charismatic, you see...) Recently fashionable stuff about the wisdom of being a "surrendered wife" really just recapitulates Ransom's line here though Lewis surely writes far better than more recent advocates of such doubtful ideas and perhaps succeeds making them as attractive and compelling as it is humanly possible to make them.The Belbury-Mark story is a lot more fun and comprises a splendid and acute essay in political satire. The picture it paints of a grimly rotten beaurocratic institution guided by what pass for "progressive" social ideals is one of the nicest things Lewis ever wrote. (Lewis's intellectual agenda here echoes in a fictional context thoughts he develops in "The Abolition of Man", one of his most interesting non-fiction essays.) Particularly well done is Belbury's "Deputy Director" Wither, whose talks a wonderful and hilarious form of verbal anti-matter that is all too recognisable as only a slight exaggeration of the worst sort of British public sector Managementspeak. The news management techniques espoused by the NICE are again satirically telling and in a strikingly contemporary way: New Labour, one fears, would have loved the NICE with their fascination with spin and "modernization".Perhaps the best and most insightful thing about the book is the characterization of Mark Studdock, an extremely telling, frighteningly plausible portrait of a man drawn into collaboration with evil not by wickedness but by weakness, a desperation to belong, to feel himself accepted in the world of those who wield the power and pull the strings. It's enormously unlikely that Hitler's Germany or Mao's China contained enough simply wicked people to sustain such poisonous regimes. But it is also enormously likely that they contained many many people who were foolish and weak in just the ways Mark Studdock was, people whose collaboporation makes them appropriate objects more for pity than for hatred.The climax is inevitably rather over the top, involving as it does the resurrection of the Arthurian druid Merlin whose ancient powers are crucial to determining the outcome of the conflict. Obviously things get a bit bonkers at this point but Lewis is rare among thriller writers for his scholarship and has the erudition in matters Arthurian to carry it off as well as anyone ever could. A real curiosity then, strange and sometimes a bit nuts but also very well-written, satirically telling, often psychologically and politically insightful and very readable.
5 This is the second best novel I've ever read.  It was a little difficult to read the first time, but then again I was twelve and wasn't so familiar with certain parts of the Arthurian Legend at the time.  I have read it several times since then, however, I have only read the first two books of the Space Trilogy once.  I have mentioned that this is the second best novel, the first would also be by C.S. Lewis.  It is TILL WE HAVE FACES: A MYTH RETOLD.While many of his books are far more popular than THAT HIDEOUS STRENGTH and TILL WE HAVE FACES, these two books are certainly his best works, and some of the best works in the English language.  However, I must warn that if you are a Lewis fan and have read the Chronicles, you might find these much more difficult to read.
5 This is the third and final book in C.S. Lewis's amazing Space Trilogy.  This book was written as a sequel to the immensely popular Out of the Silent Planet and Perelandra but Lewis also wrote it so that the story can stand on its own. So if you haven't read the first, you can start here.That Hideous Strength, unlike the first 2 books in this series, where Ransom leaves earth and fights evil in space and on other planets, the battle in this book takes place on earth.Ransom must lead a group of faithful believers against National Institute for Coordinated Experiments or N.I.C.E., an organization that believes that Science can solve all of humanity's problems. He must battle the people in this organization, super aliens trying to invade and control earth and use its population against other planets and against God.On top of all of that, Merlin has arisen from his long sleep and has arisen in England's time of greatest need.  But the question is, who will find him first - N.I.C.E. or Ransom and his team? The fate of the world, and possibly the universe, rests on this question.Lewis called this story an adult's fairy-tale. It is a mix of sci-fi and fantasy, and a book that will keep your attention as you raptly turn the pages to find out where Lewis will lead you.
4 CS Lewis weaves an interesting story that helps one understand the spiritual environment in which we live.  He resolves this story just enough to satisfy you but leaves enough unsaid to make you long to start volumen 2, Perelandra.  Full of spiritual meaning relevant to our times.
3 To be fair, I only rate Lewis' conclusion of his trilogy a 3 in relation to the other two volumes. The first was excellent and profound. The second, Christian allegory much less exciting than the Bible or history. Here, almost second-rate fantasy. Maybe Lewis was expressing strongly-held beliefs. I'm sure that his true students must know a lot about what he thought in 1946--more than I do.It was certainly a horrible time to look backward into the then-recent past. Even as good a writer as Lewis could hardly do justice to the real-death story of Hitler's attack on the world, and what it took to fight him (murderous Stalin as ally, two nuclear bombs, and then welcoming German scientists to build the military space program against the heirs of that ally).Yes, That Hideous Strength is imaginative fantasy, well written in parts, and with a few interesting points about the nasty illusions  we prop up to keep our world going as-is. But earthshaking? Unfortunately, not anymore.
5 This is by far my favorite of the trilogy. It starts very slowly, and it takes a committed reader to stick with it, but it's worth every bit. Rich with symbolism, irony, and satire--coupled with wonderful fantasy.
4 This is an entertaining depiction of the experience at the low end of the academic hierarchy.  It clearly reflects CSLewis' bitterness about some aspects of his own academic career.  The constant uncertainty of ones standing, the unceasing tension, the inbred community on whose foibles ones livelihood depends.  And, of course, the book is an expression of the not-unreasonable anxiety response at the time by professors of (a certain type of) religious faith to the overwhelming competitive successes of the hi-tech fields, at explaining the world and at bringing money into the universities.CSL is very skillful at demonizing (literally) his intellectual opponents.  As so often happens, the villians redeem what would otherwise be a stodgy book with a canned plot (Merlin lives!  Science is demonic!  Reanimating dead human body-parts is baaaaad!).  The good guys, even, unfortunately, Ransom, are totally blah, as Lord Feverstone might say.  CSL's pretentious patronizing at its worst.  Read it for the quirky character-villians, fully worthy of a James Bond flick or the Brit late-sixties TV show "The Avengers".  They include a sadistic lesbian (nicknamed "The Fairy") who runs a private security force consisting entirely of sexy young women in uniform.  When has CSL ever written anything anywhere near this campy?Today in the USA the commercial religious right claims CSL as one of theirs.  I'm not at all sure he would like this. (It's hard to picture him voting for Sarah Palin!)  Then again he probably wouldn't appreciate the "Chronicles of Narnia" video games either.Four stars for vivid narration and entertaining personalities, especially John Wither, a master of rhetorical misdirection, meanlingless reassurances, and impossible-to-follow advice.  Judo with language.  Try imitating his talking style when your boss asks why you haven't gotten more done!
4 The Space Trilogy is just great science fiction written by one of the best writers of all time. I recommend it, although it is a little harder going than the other two in the series.
3 In 2004, I decided to begin reading through C.S. Lewis' "Space Trilogy." I loved the first book, Out of the Silent Planet. Lewis turned upside down my expectations, as he imagined how sin would affect (or not affect) life on other planets. In 2005, I read the second book in the series, Perelandra. While I did not enjoy the second as much as the first, I recognized and appreciated Lewis' literary genius in recasting the Adam and Eve story.It took four years to get around to the third book in Lewis' trilogy. That Hideous Strength is quite different than the first two. All the action takes place on Earth. The book is about twice as long as the others. And the main character from the other books doesn't appear until midway through the story. This work reminds me of 1984, except that it starts out much slower and ends up with an explicitly Christian interpretation. I enjoyed parts of this book, particularly the ways in which Lewis pointed out the ease with which men of the academy can be led astray by the desire for popularity. But That Hideous Strength was my least favorite of the trilogy.
5 Hidden in this excellent science-fiction novel is a startling look at our own society.  I found myself discovering parallels to my own experience with &quot;N.I.C.E.&quot; institutions such as major American universities and the like.  A fascinating and frightening read.  You'll want a good chair for this one -- let it sink in and experience it fully.
4 C. S. Lewis' THAT HIDEOUS STRENGTH is nominally the third book in what is described as his "space trilogy," but such a description does not accurately portray the nature of this prophetic work.  Lewis himself calls it "a modern fairy-tale for grown-ups," but that also falls short of adequate description.  Since science fiction it is not, and a fairy tale it is not, let us see if we can determine what it may be.It is, of course, allegorical and suggests strongly the same sort of allegory that underlies the Ring series by Tolkien (despite the latter's statements to the contrary).  As the scientific research organization N.I.C.E. steadily gains public acceptance, then public support, and then assumption of governmental authority, even as the nefarious nature of its goals becomes more and more evident, the reader struggles to scream a warning to the citizens being caught and enslaved in its encroaching web.  Why do they not see through the faade of scientific progress and recognize the dehumanizing goals of this soulless entity?  Why do they support this encroaching social cancer?  Why do they turn against and attack those few who try to sound a warning?  The reader, who has the advantage of an external vantage point, sees the growing evil, the destruction of that which is good, but is powerless to open the eyes of those who are being irretrievably deceived.Lewis' allegory is, unfortunately, timeless and is as applicable today as it was when it was first published in 1945.  It is no stretch of the imagination to equate N.I.C.E. with the spreading multi-national corporations of the 21st century.  As president of the United States from 1953 to 1961, Dwight Eisenhower warned of the social and economic dangers inherent in the growing military-industrial complex, but his prescience has been disregarded, or, more sinisterly, has been overwhelmed by the strength of industrialists whose wealth and power seem to place them above control by the people.  Yet, had Lewis' warning been heeded in 1945, Eisenhower's would have been unneeded ten years later.  Both are still applicable today.Is there a solution to the encroachment of evil into human affairs?  If there is, Lewis did not know of it. True, by the end of THAT HIDEOUS STRENGTH, the tools of evil are dead and the N.I.C.E. organization is destroyed, but Lewis warns that this has been only a battle and that the war will continue in other places and in other ways.Lewis' message is, as I hope I have now shown, as uncomfortably real, urgent, and contemporary as it was when he wrote it.  As to the manner in which he wrote it, this book is surely the strongest and most readable of the trilogy, which includes OUT OF THE SILENT PLANET and PERELANDRA.  In fact, even though reading the trilogy in order will give the reader a better understanding of Ransom and how he came to be the "Director" of the "good guys," this final book can easily stand alone and, if only one of the trilogy is to be read, would be my choice of the one to read.  The other two, while worthy of being read, are, at times, plodding in contrast to this one, which is guaranteed to raise the reader's inner tension and to urge him ever forward in the saga.If there is a weakness in the plot of this third book, it comes in the means of bringing down N.I.C.E., its minions, and its masters.  Readers familiar with Greek drama and its use of a "deus ex machina" to rescue hapless humans from their own foibles will see that Lewis has relied on a similar technique.  Literally, several intermediate gods (inspired by medieval concepts of hierarchical levels in the universe) as well as a reawakened Merlin and a biblical "Tower of Babel" solution are necessary to defeat the enemy in this battle, and I'm not at all certain that any of these weapons are available to us in the "real world."  Despite this, however, the novel is as gripping as any conspiracy suspense thriller, a comparison I have borrowed from another reviewer because I can think of no better way of putting it.  In short, buy the book, read it, and, most importantly, learn from it.  I have.
5 As author of Project 314, I have a deep appreciation for the way that Lewis pits good vs. evil.  In his space trilogy, Lewis ranks with Stephen King (The Stand), and Tolkien's ring series in the way that he reaches deeply into his imagination to allegorize the moral dilemma of man.  From a scientific standpoint he is ahead of his time.  Imagine Lewis' amazement at the way we keep bodies alive today!
3 I would have to say this is my least favorite of Lewis' space trilogy.  Rather than being a logical culmination of the prior two books (Out of the Silent Planet, and Perelandra), it seems kind of an odd departure.  The main character of the first book books (Ransom) doesn't appear until mid-way through, and then he is like an exalted, aloof and remote King (the Director, actually), who is also the real heir of Arthurian legend.  Lewis tries to put together Arthurian legend with the demonic evil of a "friendly fascist" corporation with the ironic acronym of "N.I.C.E.", but the attempt, in my view, really fails.  There is a race and battle between the Ransom-led forces, and the N.I.C.E forces to awaken the sleeping soul of the real Merlin (sic!), and the combination is just too weird, really.  Instead of being the cap to the space trilogy, this should have been an independent book.  Overall it is also more than twice as long as the first two books, and could really have been edited down to size.  There was a lot of description, endless chatty dialogue, which didn't seem entirely necessary.
5 This final book in Lewis' space trilogy is very different from its predecessors. It starts a lot more slowly, but builds to a higher crescendo. The characters are more nuanced, less like cardboard cutouts labeled "good" and "evil." Finally, more than the others, the ending is clear, timely, and very satisfying.It's hard to describe this book, but try to picture Orwell's 1984 rewritten from a Christian view. The world had not reached Orwell's nightmare, but was headed decisively in that direction. The leaders of that putsch had all too familiar an appearance, and were ready to make every use of people uncertain of their own morality.The end of the book, just a few pages following the end of the conflict, took me quite by surprise. (No, I won't give it away.) In retrospect, though, it makes a lot of sense. Lewis was acutely aware of mankind's combined nature, physical and spiritual, with no need for distinction to be made. In "The Screwtape Letters", Lewis stated the importance of physically kneeling to pray because of how the physical act of kneeling affects the mind made from that physical body. I am quite sure that the ending was written to be as devout as Lewis could possibly make it, and it is a very beautiful vision of sacred duty.This book is immensely more mature a work than the two that preceded it. The others create context for this one, but this stands very well by itself. If you have patience with its slow start, you may be happily surpised.//wiredweird
5 I'm a sucker for big fat kids' fantasy books (big fat adult fantasy books tend to throw me off) and I picked up &quot;Woven Path&quot; with great anticipation. I was not disappointed. Robin Jarvis, who wrote the great fantasy book &quot;Dark Portal,&quot; weaves an intriguing fantasy story.Neil Chapman is &quot;our hero,&quot; a young man who comes to the Wyrd Museum (a pun on Weird?), a rather grimy and unimpressive building in the East End. Creepy hardly describes the odd museum, run by three old ladies who are... uh, creepy. Who are they? What are they?Better brush up on Greek and Norse myths, as these bizarre old ladies are the Fates, who weave a cloth composed of the life-threads of all the people of the world into their future. When Neil steps into the Separate Collection, he is swept through time and space to London. In WW2. A scramble will result before Neil can hope to return, with some odd new friends...The idea of a magical place being run by the Fates is an intriguing and original idea indeed, and Jarvis does it justice. The three are suitably creepy and strange, and the inner mood of their museum matches their personalities.Neil is a better-than-usual book hero, a very realistic person with great reactions and some very good lines. And the character of Ted was sweet, nuff zed. Jarvis skillfully manages to make Ted believable and sympathetic, not juvenile or stupid.The writing style is snappy where it needs to be and drawn out where it needs to be, with pretty good descriptions and characterization. I got confused a few times in this book, where the plot took a twist and I inadvertantly missed it, but the story flows well overall.A wonderful read, and I cannot wait for &quot;Raven's Knot&quot;!
5 Robin Jarvis' Wyrd Museum Trilogy is a fantastic blend of Fantasy and Horror with interesting characters and a great story line.Jarvis starts his trilogy with the slightly more easy going, &quot;The Woven Path&quot; which is an exiting journey into the the past life of an old teddy bear. Neil Chapmann and his family move into the Wyrd Museam as his father takes a job as a caretaker. While exploring Neil comes across a room filled with mysterious treasures and meets Ted, the reincarnation of a world war two American pilot. The two of them are sent back in time by Ursula Webster one of the three sisters who own the museum. They end up in London during world war two. Unfortunatly an ancient power has been unleashed on the city and Neil and Ted only have a little time to finish their quest before the demon finds them.This is a great book although it may be frightening for smaller children.
4 This story sends chills trough you, but I`m not completely shure how much little kids enjoy it, because there is quite a bit of describing and I`ve found out that the youngsters don`t really find that amusing - it bores them if it seems too long. Shure they can identify with Niel (a boy sent back to war-time London) and the Teddy, but him actually beeing a grown man must confuse them.I enjoyed it nevertheless - the Webster sisters anre creepy without any other stuff happening, and the father is so adorably helpless. The Story itself is well writen too and will probably not dissapoint you. Try it.
5 Absolutely loved this book and I can't wait to start the RAven's Knot!!What I loved about this book was how Jarvis integrated mythology and history into this work of fiction.My only minor issue was the character of Ted, who was from New York, actually read more Cockney to me until Jarvis got the swing of it near the end of the book. Other than that, Perfection!! This book is wonderful!!
1 As a kid, I read Book One (The Dark Portal) of the Deptford Mice trilogy until the pages were creased and worn from use. It wasn't until I was 25 that I got to read the rest of the trilogy, and was as enthralled as I had been when I was much younger. Recently, a friend of mine and I were chatting about old books, and Robin Jarvis came up in discussion, prompting a renewed interest in his writings. What had one of my favorite authors written since last I thought to pick anything up by him? A search at Amazon revealed The Woven Path - book one of the Wyrd Museum Trilogy, which I thought looked rather promising.Sadly though, The Woven Path just didn't do it for me. Having read (and even that much was an effort) roughly halfway through the book, I have sadly had to admit that I really am wasting my time. The book had a nice atmosphere, a spooky, dark feeling to it which left me optimistic that this would be an enjoyable read, but sadly I remained bored, not really all that interested in the characters or the plot (perhaps too many ideas struggling for my attention) and when the time travel element was introduced, I found myself truly struggling to find the motivation to read further.A book should not require this much forced effort to read, and I really do have to admit that the whole effort is something I have not enjoyed at all. Of all the characters in the book, I really don't think much to Neil, I particularly dislike Ted, and the rest aren't much better. Plot feels a bit flimsy, with far too much happening that doesn't really make any sense or seem relevent. Of course, I do expect answers to be given by the end of the book, but I have to admit that I really don't care to know them.And for that reason, and with much dissapointment, this book has been set on my "donate to charity" pile.
5 This is one of my favorites. It includes several good stories that are fairly short for Dr. Seuss and a lot of fun to read.
5 I read this to my soon to be born son and we uploaded it to the belly buds website. Very entertaining!
5 This is a great book.  When my children were young, I read it to them and they loved it, especially &#34;What  Was I Scared Of&#34;  (The Pale Green Pants).  I definitely recommend it.
5 Love classic Dr. Seuss, such fun stories. My daughter loves them as her bedtime stories. I also love the kindle editions.
5 I ordered this after seeing it on Amazon.  It was one of my favorite books growing up and I wanted to share it with my three daughters (8,6,& 2).  After reading "The Sneetches" to my 6 year-old, she looked at me and said that it wasn't very nice to treat people badly because they aren't the same as us.  I was thrilled that she got the meaning of that story right away.  Dr. Seuss is a genius for getting these moral points across in a way that children understand and making it so fun at the same time.  She thought that "The Zax" was funny.  She didn't understand why they just didn't compromise.  Every story in this book has an important lesson and it's such a great way to spend time with your children too!
5 The Sneetches should be required reading for all adults. The children in your life will enjoy it, too. It's several stories in one book. It's worth buying just for The Sneetches, but they are all good stories. The moral: Stop putting other people down because you have something they don't. Dr. Seuss just says it in a much more fun and engaging way. :-)
5 Yet again Dr Seuss writes a book perfect for teaching character!  Tolerance MUST be taught, contrary to popular belief that children are all born nice and stay that way.  Some sneetches have stars and some don't.  The stars determine who is better and how you are treated.  Of course this book should be used to discuss tolerance, equality, and bullying.
5 I bought this book for my grand-daughter. I like to buy books that are informative, and tells a lesson but is fun to read just the same. This book definitely does all three. Also, it gives my daughter an opportunity to discuss what my grand-daughter learned from reading the book. My grand-daughter really loves it and enjoys the interaction with her Mother.
5 I just had to have it in my son's library to discover. It's worth every penny especially with so much talk about bullies in schools.
5 I was not familiar with this Dr. Suess book.  It has a couple of great short stories in it.  My students loved them and were so quiet during the story.  Another great Dr. Suess book to add to my collection.
5 Love it.  Good lesson for kids.
5 This was a Christmas present for my children and like all other Dr. Seuss books I, and they, loved it. Great pictures with good morals in it. I liked the 40th edition that we got with the foil cover.It is a new constant at bedtime that they want to be read. I also like that there are multiple stories in the one book.
5 I love these stories.  I kept telling the Zax story as the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives were in such a stand off that the government of the United States of America had to shut down while one of them insisted that it always went north and the other would not budge from its south going state.  I was amazed at the numbers of people who didn't know the story, so I bought an electronic copy to show them.And the Sneeches story is a perfect answer to the racism and ethnic snobbery that people still encounter more than a decade into the 21st century.  If you don't have a copy of this book, get one and show it around.
5 Dr Seuss books are great.  Perfect for helping kids decipher nonsense words.  My Grandson can't get enough of Dr. Seuss.
5 My kids loved this book when they were little. I am getting this book for a friend for her baby shower. Great book on tolerance.
5 The Sneetches, by Dr. Seuss is about sneetches that are very segregated. There are two types of sneetches: star-bellied and plain-bellied. The star-bellied sneetches are very exclusive and only invite other star-bellied sneetches to their parties and picnics and frankfurter roasts. This makes the plain-bellied sneetches really sad.Everything changes, though, when Sylvester McMonkey McBean shows up. He has a machine that can put star on plain-bellied sneetches, so of course, they all get stars. But when the original star-bellied sneetches find out about this, they're really mad. They get their stars taken off by Sylvester. Soon, a horrible mess is made. Everyone is getting their stars taken off and then put back on until they realize that it doesn't matter whether they have stars or not.The Sneetches is a great book. It teaches that looks don't matter and to accept people just the way they are. This book is geared toward younger kids, but I think that anyone would enjoy it. This was one of my favorite books when I was little and it never gets old.-Claire Bonnyman
5 My all time favorite Dr. Seuss story.  It's about a beach full of these creatures called Sneeches.  Some have green stars on their bellies and others do not.  Those with stars do not treat the Sneeches with no stars very nicely.  Then a crazy character comes in to give stars to those Sneeches without them.  Chaos ensues and all the Sneeches end up confused as to why originally had a star and who didn't.  I love the message that just because some us look different, it's no reason to treat people, or other Sneeches in this case, any different.  This book is a larger hardback and comes with a few other stories in it.  My son also likes What Was I Scared Of? about a Who-like person who comes across a pair of empty green pants in the forest.  It's a great addition to your Seuss collection.  &#34;We're all just the same now you snooty old smarties!  And now we can go to your frankfurter parties!&#34;
5 Researchers constantly find that reading to children is valuable in a variety of ways, not least of which are instilling a love of reading and  improved reading skills. With better parent-child bonding from reading,  your child will also be more emotionally secure and able to relate better  to others. Intellectual performance will expand as well. Spending time  together watching television fails as a substitute.To help other  parents apply this advice, as a parent of four I consulted an expert, our  youngest child, and asked her to share with me her favorite books that were  read to her as a young child. The Sneetches and Other Stories was one of  her picks.One of the reasons I liked to read Dr. Seuss stories to all of  my children was that they contain up-lifting moral messages.  In The  Sneetches, the lesson is tolerance of those who are different from you.  In  The Zax, cooperation is encouraged.  In Too Many Daves, individuality is  espoused.  What Was I Scared of? looks at the irrational bases of many of  our fears.The stories are also wonderful because they are humorous, have  fun poems, and the drawings are very interesting and unusual.The moral  lesson in The Sneetches is put together in a very clever way.  The story  starts with two types of Sneetches, those with stars on their tummies and  those without.  The former are the higher status group.  Then, Sylvester  McMonkey McBean came to town with machines that could add stars.  He  quickly got rich making all the Sneetches look alike.  The high-class  Sneetches didn't like that, so they paid to have the stars taken off.  And  so on it went, until McBean had all of the money.  Then, the Sneetches  finally got smart and treated everyone alike, whether or not they had  stars.  As you can see, this makes anyone who holds onto small differences  as being important look silly (whether based on something one is born with,  or perhaps even based on something one can buy like athletic sneakers).  Ah, a great story!The Zax get so caught up on who is right that the  world passes them by.  In fact, a whole road and a city are built right  over them as they stand firm against the other in the sand.  Such a lovely  counter-thought that is for stubborn children to learn!Too Many Daves  reminds me of a family I met where the father was named Bruce and had  several sons named Bruce.  It was most confusing when they were all around.  We have a bit of the same problem in my family where there are four Dons  in three generations.  Everyone in my family lobbies against any more  Dons!What Was I Scared of! was my daughter's least favorite story in  this book.  I think that was because the scary parts last for many  dark-looking pages.  The resolution that the scary looking pants are just  as frightened as you are takes a long time to develop.  You may find that  your child will like this story at an older age than the other stories in  the book.  It's the last one, so it's easy to stop just before it.Now,  having read (or reread) these stories, ask yourself what misconceptions you  have about the way the importance of how things are.  If you act the  opposite of any of these stories, your child may find you a little  hypocritical.  Cure those little faults before you fall in your child's  eyes!
3 Don't get me wrong - the story is still the same wonderful story. I love reading it to my kids. I thought this would be a good way to carry the stories with me when I was out doing errands. However, I bought it for my Kindle DX, thinking that I could turn it to landscape view and see the pictures with the pictures on the left and the text on the right. It doesn't work that way. The way Amazon has arranged it, the pictures are on the right, and there's nothing on the left page. When it shows the text, the text is on the right and there's no picture. You either have the text or the picture, not both. That doesn't work when reading to children. The book may fit well on a Fire, but not on the black-and-white Kindle. If that's the type you have, don't buy it.
5 This was one of my favorite books when I was a child.  I ordered it a couple months ago, since I remembered how much I had loved it.  I laughed so hard I cried, through almost the whole book!  It's amazing to me that this man could have come up with the important lessons that he did, and get them across in such funny ways and while making the fantastic rhymes that he did! The book amazed me as I was laughing and crying!  The story of the Sneetches that thought they were better than everyone else getting their comeuppance had me in stitches.  The northgoing and southgoing zax with their lesson on stubbornness and "I won't budge" made me think that everyone in my whole family (up,down and sideways) must have read this story and instead of learning NOT to be stubborn, used the zaxes as their heros in learning TO be stubborn (don't budge EVEN if they build the highway over you)!!!!  And the guy being scared of the pants with nobody in them, and it turns out the pants were depressed and scared too!!!  It shows that others have the same feelings you do (even if the "others" are strange personless pants)!!!  These lessons are SO good and useful for everyone . . .  (Okay!  So I didn't understand the lesson in the 23 Daves!)  This book, to me, is pure genius.  It is as timely today as when it was written in 1961.
5 Dr. Seuss wrote this wonderfully rich tale of the sneetches with a keen eye for simplifying social injustices.  Using past anti-semitic imagery of the star of David on jewish clothes during WWII, Seuss teaches the lessons of self-acceptance and tolerance; all children should learn this lesson from their parents--however way they wish to teach them.  Seuss offers us this great enjoyable tool with which to teach children and probably even more important--adults--what should be inborn.
5 Dr. Seuss is always a winner. This was a gift for a friend's child based on teh fact that my girls love the copy that I still have from the 70's when I was a child. His stories are so timeless and relevant all these years later!
5 Just finished up our Read Across America celebrations and thought I'd take a minute to write about this book!  This book helps encourage individuality, promotes tolerance, and lends itself to many areas of instructions.  I've used it in Kindergarten, First, Second, and Sixth grades to teach character development, history, comprehension, persuasion, rhyming and lots more!  Don't limit your Seuss to early March - his stories are relevant all year long!
5 I got this book for Too Many Daves and didn't even remember how great The Sneetches was. A true classic.
5 I loved Dr. Seuss books as kid. I also enjoyed the cartoons. I am glad they are now on kindle and  you can make the text bigger. I can now enjoy reading them all over again on my iPad.
5 My sons were given the Sneetches book 25 years ago from my aunt who read it to her sons. It was my youngest sons favorite book and we read it several times every night. We in turn gave the book to another family when my sons were older. I now have 6 grandchildren who love to be read to and I often wished that I still had the Sneetches book. When I saw it on Amazon I purchased it immediately. The book is very nicely made and I am looking forward to reading it again to my grandchildren.
5 Dr. Seuss is a favorite in our house... always fun and silly, and the kids always want to make up their own Dr. Seuss-style phrases or stories (which is a good game for the imagination).  Dr. Seuss has never been a great choice for us on bedtime stories, gets my kids acting a little too silly at times.  But it's a fun one for us to read any other time.  You can't go wrong with Dr. Seuss... a guaranteed good time!  This one is one of the best!!!  Funny, captivating, unusual, with a good solid message that you'll be proud for your children to learn - accepting the differences in others!  This is the classic way to teach children that reading can be a lot of fun!!! You'll find yourself reading this one over and over again!
5 This is a classic, right up there with "It's a Wonderful Life".  Children love these three stories.  I recommend this book.
4 My almost-3-year-old daughter goes nuts for the sneetches each night and asks to read it most nights. I downloaded the Kindle Fire version of this book, which also came with a couple of other stories that she enjoys as well - The Zax, Too many Daves, and What Was I scared of (a story a pair of walking, empty pants). For the price it seems like a very good bargain and has already been worth a couple hours of entertainment.  The only downside is the print is a bit small for the Kindle Fire regular screen; it works a little better on our iPad Kindle App.
5 One of the classics. I still enjoy it&#8212;as I do virtually all of Dr. Seuss' books. This was for 12 and 13-year-old grandchildren to read to a 1-year-old.
5 This is classic Dr. Seuss. It will be read over and over. The stories will lst for ever too. this is a great book for the begiining reader
5 Our family has loved Dr. Seuss from infancy to early teens. And many books come and go in our home library, but this one will always remain. This book contains several great stories, The Sneetches, The Zax, Too Many Daves and What Was I Scared Of. "The Sneetches" is an amazing story for opening a dialogue with your child (regardless of age) about tolerance, race and prejudice. The philosophical questions that can easily be generated are limitless. "The Zax" is another great story about stubbornness and unwillingness to even hear other points of view. "What Was I Scared Of" will resonant with children and adults and the wonderful conversation that comes when we talk about facing our fears and how so many of them are unfounded is priceless. We found this book along with many other Dr. Seuss books to really engage our children in conversation and think about the world around them on many different levels. It is also a great way to introduce children critical thinking with literature.
5 Fantastic book for kids! So imaginative and creative. Easy read that children will find delightful!Dr. Seuss is always brilliant! His stories and rhymes are fun and entertaining! Some of my all time favorites!! Such a great way to entertain children and get them interested in reading!
5 Second time for this book - new grandchild.  It's a little different in color but I expect it will work.
5 Looking to collect some classic favorites for seven grandchildren. Used books are the way to go! Book was as described and arrived promptly - no problems.
5 I had this book in record form when I was a little girl. It wasn't until I was eight or nine that I found out that it was a book first. Anyhow, I loved these stories! In fact, "What was I scared of?" was the very first story I could recite from memory at the age of five, astonishing my parents. I'm not sure why, but it's my favorite. I think my other favorite is "Too Many Daves." The names that she should've given them, "Foden Fan Horn," "Hoos Foos," are a riot!This and many other of Dr. Seuss' books were instrumental in helping me learn to read at an early age. I hope that when I become a mother, I will share some of the same precious memories with my own children.
5 Don't overlook the titles ending with &#34;and other stories&#34; because they are among his best.  Wonderful morality tale here: snobbery, fashion, and profiteering.
5 purchased as a gift.  I had never read this set of Dr. Seuss stories before and it is now a bedtime favorite.  We read all four stories most evenings. Glad I purchased it.
5 This is one of my favorite Dr. Seuss books.  It's one some grown-ups should read.  I love reading it to my four-year-old.  It is composed of several short stories, each with a pretty good moral.  What I love about Dr. Suess is his ability to bring across a message without being patronizing (kids can sense it!).
5 If you can turn Sneetches into a teachable moment - you can begin combating consumerism and fad-chasing and the Kardashians (ugh!) right from the beginning of their young, impressionable lives.  A must read.  If you can't afford it, go check it out from your local library.
5 If you are a racist, umm, I mean Star Belly Sneetch, you should buy and read this book.  It will simplify your ignorance to the point where even you might be able to understand the implications of your own racism.If you are not a racist, you should buy this book.  It will simplify racists to the point that you will give a hardy chuckle -- and wish that the good old doctor could have lived forever . . . .
5 You don't hear a lot about this book like &#34;The Cat in the Hat&#34; and some others, but it has a wonderful moral to it that is good for the young and old alike. It will remind you of how important it is to be happy with who you are and not to worry about other folks. A fun read in the wonderful rhyming Suess style. You will read this and then remember the &#34;stars on thars&#34; when you run into a situation where someone thinks they are a little too big for their boots 'er stars!
5 This is one of my favorite Dr. Seuss books. Creative and fun. Teaches life lessons as well as good reading skills.
5 When I was a kid, the very last story in this book scared the hell out of me. No, really. It's called "What Was I Afraid Of" and it's about a pair of pale green pants with nobody inside 'em. I spent many nights both horrified and fascinated by that concept. I swear it's why I write the morbid stuff I write today.Of course, I know now that Seuss was only trying to teach his readers that what we fear are things we don't recognize. Seuss is like that. With his acid trip art and jaunty, rhyming narratives, it's easy to get lost in a story and forget the moral. So much the better.This book, and others like it, is as much for adults as it is for children. I've bought several copies of "The Sneetches and Other Stories" for nieces and the young children of friends. I do it for the kids, of course, but I always give it another read before handing it over.Of the Suess books, this is my favorite. Of course, I'm all grown up now. I only think about those pale, green pants in the darkest months when I'm alone and my imagination is particularly Suessified.
5 Bought the book as a replacement for my home library.  It was my children's favorite.  Also, it arrived just in time for Dr. Seuss Week at our elementary school.  I bought the &#34;celebration edition.&#34;
4 good stories with good meaning/lessons behind them. not as great or fun as some of the other dr. seuss stories but still worth reading.
5 ... and these stories can help you teach your kids!This book has four good, shorter tales:The Sneetches - Fashion and fads are temporaryThe Zax - How pride can keep you from successToo Many Daves - (laugh together at this Seussy nonsense)What Was I Scared Of? - sometimes, the unknown is afraid of YOU
5 Bought this book for my toddler.  She loves it.  It will also be a good book for when she learns to read.  It has a really good moral. :)
5 &quot;What was I scared of?&quot;, the last story in this book, has long been my favorite Dr. Seuss story.  I read it aloud as a child.  Now it is one of my son's favorites.  Dr. Seuss explores scary things like the dark, people or things that aren't familiar, and the idea that it doesn't work to try and run or hide, all within a silly story of green pants with nobody inside them.  The sneetches and their struggle to be elite makes any number of statements about our society in a way that is simple for young minds to understand.  And the stories about the stubborn Zax and the mother who named all her sons Dave turn words into an amusement park.  Definitely one of Dr. Seuss' best.
5 My children and I enjoy hours together reading these books.  The teach so many lessons on so many different levels!
5 this is a long book and great when they can read it to themselves but it's pure fun genius dr. seuss. and every rhyme still seems to ring true as an adult. like the short stories
5 We are huge fans of Dr. Seuss books, and this is another fantastic book. My daughters (5 and 7) always enjoy the stories, too.They are fun to read out loud as an adult and make me smile every time.
5 This Dr. Seuss offering I read to my own children 25 yrs. ago, and now my grandchildren are enjoying this book, as well. These stories are less non-sensical, yet convey a message in a whimsical way.  Our kids ESPECIALLY like the pale green pants story, and when my 7 yr. old granddaughter read it to ME the other night, I could say it right along with her......I've read it so many times, I know it by heart!!  I highly recommend this particular Dr. Seuss book.
5 How can you go wrong with a Dr. Seuss book?  These classic books are a must for all children whether in an at home library or a classroom library.  An  absolute classic!!
5 A favorite of both Dad and 4 year old son. Great fun to read every time--for both him and me!
5 This is a not-too-thinly disguised fable. A group of citizens is ultimately ALL conned out of every cent they own because hatred was dividing them.The very smart Sylvester McMonkey McBean is an 'equal opportunity' entrepreneur. This traveling salesman does not care what background the Sneetches are--or want to be, he exploits their fears and insecurity for his own personal benefit. He always has the 'right machine' to soothe their worries.Until nobody has any money to continue giving him! So he packs up and leaves the now-impoverished town alone. The various Sneetches now have to develop the idea that they are more alike than different after all.The moral of the story is that prejudice is expensive and destructive. It divides people from each other.
5 at teaching good things in a fun way.  This book shows that a looking different doesn't make a person less fun or likeable. It has great rhymes, & is a quick read before sleep time.
4 Loved this as a kid--another one of Seuss's stories in which the moral is obvious but the storytelling has character and nuance. In &#34;The Sneetches,&#34; some Sneetches naturally have stars on their bellies and others are born without them, which causes the star-bellied Sneetches to discriminate against the plain-bellied Sneetches. What's interesting is a scoundrel named Sylvester McMonkey McBean rolls into town and offers plain-bellied Sneetches a chance to get stars put on themselves, which of course causes the naturally star-bellied Sneetches to feel that their specialness needs to be preserved and that the have-nots being turned into haves is upsetting to the natural order. So they also end up paying Sylvester McMonkey McBean to take their stars OFF, and so on--soon enough stars have no meaning and McBean is the big winner, and he departs basically laughing at them for letting him exploit them. Despite having fairly entrenched prejudice at the start of the story, they're able to see eye to eye after they were all kind of taken advantage of by an opportunistic businessman, and yay, Sneetch Racism Is Over. I sure wish it was that simple for humans.There are a few other stories in the same book, and I liked them too even though their shortness meant there wasn't much development. &#34;The Zax&#34; was about stubborn creatures called Zax who are set in their ways regarding which direction they walk. Since when they finally meet after walking either north or south their whole lives, they refuse to move west or east to get out of each other's way and return to their walking, so the world has to go on around them and leave them standing there unwilling to budge. Interesting cautionary tale. Then we have &#34;Too Many Daves&#34; in which a woman names all her kids Dave. (I wondered as a kid what she would have done if she'd had any girls.) Of course, the most entertaining thing about this is that the mother realizes naming 23 sons Dave is a bad idea and suddenly comes up with a host of fabulous names they could have had. My practical kid brain suggested that the various Daves certainly would have developed nicknames naturally in this situation. But oh well. And &#34;What Was I Scared Of?&#34; was hilariously about a pair of pants. They are standing on their own and that scares the narrator until he realizes the pants are also scared of him. That's a pretty sophisticated look at the whole Fear Of Other phenomenon, in a kid-friendly way. (Because you have to admit, when an empty pair of sentient pants is outside your experience, you're going to be afraid of it unless you try to understand it.)
5 As a child, this was my favorite Dr. Seuss book, and my favorite story in the book, was The Sneetches.  Dr. Seuss always found a gentle and fun way to teach life's most important lessons.  The Star-bellied Sneetches had stars upon &#34;thars&#34; while the Plain-bellied Sneetches did not.  Dr. Seuss tells a story about characters who make judgments about others' worthiness based on superficial characteristics, like whether that individual has a star upon his belly; not unlike the judgments being made at the time based upon the color of one's skin.  I credit this story with some of the kernels of my wanting equity for everyone and for wondering why people weren't treated fairly.  The Sneetches should be on every child's bookshelf- or better yet in that basked beside the bed of night-time favorites.
5 How can you lose with a book about high brow, star bellied Sneetches being handed humble pie.  You can't lose.  Neither can your child.  A classic.
5 The Sneetches has been one of my favorite Seuss stories since I was a child. This collection includes a few other great, whimsical, short stories. My boys loved them all!
5 I personally feel that lyrical poetry is a wonderful tool to help children learn to read. It helps them to feel the rhythms of the English language, they can anticipate what will come next, and then they can memorize passages - it's just a wonderful thing. I often wonder if my love of Shakespeare developed from all those readings of How the Grinch Stole Christmas (William is most likely rolling in his grave right now...)This book is loads of fun - expect squeals of delight when you read the story of the frightful "empty Pants with nobody inside 'em".  You can't beat the Sneetches for a hidden story about equality, and the story about too many Daves is a riot!  Especially since most of us DO know too many Daves!!
5 This is my second favorite Dr Seuss book. Even though the green pants with no one inside them terrified me when I was young, the messages from the Sneetches and those two stubborn Zax are timeless and almost more appropriate for high school students or adults than they are for young children.
1 In Sneetches we are asked to sympathize with the star-less Sneetches, who are seeking special rights because they aren't invited to parties.  Instead of throwing a party themselves or maybe getting a job, the star-less Sneetches just mope around on the beach.  Eventually the starred Sneetches let the star-less ones participate in the parties, but only after every last dollar is spent and the economy has crashed.Who is the 'bad guy' in the story?  Why it's the entrepreneur, the business owner, the one person who appears to have a job......of course.This is the most insidious form of liberal propaganda -- the kind that sneaks up on children.  While Doctor Seuss (who wasn't a real Doctor) wrote many a book that teaches wholesome values, his works are interspersed with liberal propaganda, like this book and the Lorax, which should be avoided like the liberal plague.
5 I bought this for my niece, who is just discovering Dr. Seuss.  The Sneetches are the headliners, but my favorite has always been &#34;What Was I Scared Of?&#34; (The pale green pants with no one inside them).  This book has some serious miles on it, and its appeal does not decrease.  Enjoy!
4 Ah, Sneetches.This book comes with four Seuss stories. It is a mark of the man's skill that he was able to write a clear moral for each of them without being too preachy. (He didn't always succeed at this, which is why I refuse to buy a copy of the Lorax, but when he got it right he was SO right.)The first story, Sneetches, is a pretty clear moral about discrimination. The ones with stars and the ones with "none upon thars" run back and forth and back and forth trying to have the right number of stars until they are all fleeced out of all their cash. And then they figure out that a Sneetch is a Sneetch, stars or no.The second one, about the Zaxes, is what happens when a south-going Zax meets a north-going Zax and neither is willing to budge an inch. The world doesn't stop, no matter how long they stand there, and a whole city goes up while they glare at each other.Mrs. McCave had 23 sons and she named them all Dave and if there's a moral here (other than "Knock it off with the zany theme naming!") I can't find it. Good fun, though :)And finally, that one about the scary green pants that walk around with nobody in them and scare our narrator witless until he realizes they're as scared of him as he is of them.They're fun, most of them have a good moral, and they're Seuss. What more can you ask for? (Note: Some kids might find that green pants story a little scary.)
5 The Sneetches and Other Stories is fantastic reading for your child.  It's not just that excellent first story in the title, but also three others that range from fun to thoughtful.The Sneetches is about creatures who separate into two groups based on appearance.  With the star-bellied Sneetches looking down on the non-star-bellied Sneetches, tension builds...until in walks an entrepreneur who can instantly erase the differences with a "star-on" machine.  I've heard reviewers crank about this story being pro-welfare, or liberal propaganda, but the lesson is more about prejudice, and while I won't spoil the story for you, there is a very P.T. Barnum-styled ending that helps the Sneetches realize that snap judgements lead to blinding one to what matters.The story "The Zax" is another blindered example where two creatures hate each other so much they let life pass them by.  The rest of the world moves on, while they can't seem to get over their mutual dislike of each other.  This story is very short.Then we have "Too Many Daves".  Hilarious and silly, this is practically a short two-page poem, all about a mother who made the mistake of naming all of her children Dave.  My daughter was always delighted when I read this story because of all the silly words in it.Which brings us to the unsung gem at the end of "The Sneetches and Other Stories":  the tale "What Was I Afraid Of?"  Dealing with a child's fear of the unknown, this spooky little tale resolves itself sweetly, and I really enjoy the way Dr. Seuss shows a child that perhaps with a bit of determination, one might find that one's fears and anxieties really aren't so bad after all.  The fact that the main character is afraid of a pair of green pants is silly enough that a child can instantly grasp that there are reasonable fears...and then there are unreasonable ones.Whatever stories you choose to read, read to your child.  You will see a huge difference in their learning, because you took the time to be with them and encouraged them.  I loved The Sneetches and Other Stories because its lessons to me are the sorts of things every child should learn about dealing with others and with themselves.
5 The first, of course, is the title story. It's a homily on how very unimportant those little differences between people are- interesting echoes of anti-racist sentiments from Seuss's WWII political cartoons. Next comes an amusing ten-page illustration of bull-headed stubbornness at its worst, a topic sure to be close to the hearts of any parents of small children. The third story is very brief, just an alliterative exercise in Seussish naming. Seuss finishes the book with a more sustained short on the topic of - well, shorts. It's a sermon, like so many of Seuss's stories, but delivered in the gentleway you'd expect.But it's all Seuss, so it's all good stuff. And, if you ever get to be too old for this happy silliness, you will have lost something wonderful. Just hope you grow back into a taste for these stories again.//wiredweird
5 I decided to buy this book because i wanted to add it to my teacher's "library." I've used the sneechea in a lesson plan before to introduce the diary of a young girl. It's an amazing story! Dr. Seuss was very much an advocate for social justice and understanding and I love his books. It's difficult enough to teach kids about tolerance because of all the terrible things they hear an see but this book is great for tolerance building!I also like that his book has other stories in it, I feel like I'm getting multiple stories for less than the price of one book!Overall: great stories, great price! I highly recommend!
5 People who are looking for ways to change the negative lifestyle and want to change their lives towards more positive thinking and living.
5 This profound little book - essentially a transcript of a 1999 session in the UK - provides the reader with insights into foundational and fundamental Buddhist thought and teachings, as well as inspirational insights into the philosophies and teachings of the 14th Dalai Lama.The focus of the book is teaching the principles of compassion and empathy from a Buddhist point of view.  However, the book goes well beyond the expected exegesis of Buddhist scripture to transform the thoughts to those of the modern reader, and is done in such a way that you can't help but relate to the message the Dalai Lama puts forth on nonviolence and true compassion.A great read for anyone of any faith.
5 This is probably the most useful and moving book I own.  The lessons are direct and easy to understand, but extraordinarily difficult to do - one of those progressive "walk the talk" kind of things where you have to face yourself and your actions with bold honesty to truly change your own mind. This is about learning to cultivate wisdom and compassion in every part of our daily lives.  The word cultivate is important here -- these are things that must be fostered, weeded and tended to - a constant effort that has as its reward true peace of mind. If you buy no other "instruction" book on Buddhism, buy this one.
5 I absolutely love this book! There is also a little companion book called &quot;The Book of Transformation,&quot; which breaks &quot;Transforming the Mind&quot; down to its most integral ideas. I keep the little one at work (it's a blessing there) and the other at home.The Dalai Lama is so completely clear in his ideas here, it is impossible not to come away with something after reading this book. He talks about learning how to generate compassion, which he feels is absolutely necessary to leading a happy life.  &lt;sigh&gt;  If only the entire world could see this wisdom and put it into action. What an amazing place this would be. HH does it again (and again, and again, and again...)
5 The Dalai Lama gives us words of wisdom:Rely on the message not the person.Rely on the meaning not the words.Rely on your wisdom mind.Rely on your deep experience.True wisdom comes from within each one of us.  We have to trust the process and be firmly grounded.  This will bring us to "Nirvana" spiritual freedom.Other books for your consideration:Meister Eckhart, from Whom God Hid Nothing: Sermons, Writings, and Sayingsby Meister Eckhart.Compassion and Self Hate: An Alternative to Despairby Theodore I. RubinThe Dance of Life: Weaving Sorrows And Blessings into One Joyful Stepby Henri J. M. NouwenHeart of the Enlightenedby Anthony De Mello
5 The teachings in this book are timeless.  The Dalai Lama has a wonderfully peaceful way of sharing this wisdom and reminding us how we can free ourselves from the suffering we create with our attachments.  Whether you are Buddhist, or not, the information and wisdom teachings in this book transcend religion -- all humans with a mind would benefit from reading this book.  I'm not a Buddhist; but I greatly admire and deeply appreciate the wisdom, compassion, and peace at the core of these teachings.The examples and remedies provided in this book are applicable in most lives; and the advice for transforming your mind by transforming your thoughts is critical to any path of self-realization or self-actualization.  It is always refreshing to hear wise words; and this is another one of those books you can open to any page for as much wisdom as you can stand...This is a great book for anyone who wants to look inside the heart and mind of Tibetan Buddhism as it teaches compassion and release from suffering.
5 This book is based upon a series of lectures given by H.H. the Dali Lama in London in 1999.  The theme of the book is the attainment of human happiness through self-understanding, introspection and, as the title states, &quot;Trasnforming the Mind.&quot;The theme of this book is similar to a book called &quot;The Art of Happiness&quot; that recounts an American psychiatrist's conversations with the Dali Lama.  The analysis in this book, however, is deeper and more difficult.  The Dali Lama discusses Buddhist beliefs amd doctrines as well as Tibetan texts.  He presents a considerable treatment of a difficult, and fundamental Buddhist principle called &quot;Dependent Origination.&quot; He discusses the nature of human selfhood and compares differences in various schools on this difficult topic.The purpose of the book is humanistic and pragmatic at its core: it is to encourage the reader on a path to overcome suffering through self-understanding and reflection.  He offers two broad, interlocked paths towards inner transformation: altruism, or the attempt to bring benefits and good to other people rather than thinking solely of oneself and insight into the nature of reality, to be gained by introspection.The means by which the Dali Lama presents his teaching are at least as significant as the substance of his message.  Difficult teachings are presented with the simplicity that comes only from knowledge.  The Dali Lama is candid and self-effacing: he reiterates many times that he has himself no personal experience of the state of emptiness that that constitutes full realization of insight meditation.  Again and again he points out that religious people of whatever denomination can find their way to peace through following their own traditions.  Futher, those individuals with a secular outlook can also find peace by understanding themselves.  One of the most interesting parts of the book is the question and answer sessions where the Dali Lama offers succinct and insightful answers to good questions.I enjoyed learning about the different schools of thought within Mahayana Buddhism.  The Dali Lama discusses early Buddhist thinkers of the Mahayana school, particularly Nagarjuna and Shantideva and I was pleased to learn something of what he had to say about specifically Buddhist thinkers.  Also, the book includes a short Tibetan text called &quot;Eight Verses on Transforming the Mind&quot; and a commentary by the Dali Lama.Some of this book is presented in a deceptively simple manner. The Dali Lama observes that &quot;personal experience&quot; (p.24) rather than mere book reading is required to understand the nature of consciousness and of awareness.  He also encourages the reader to press on, not to become discouraged and to realize that the growth of wisdom takes lifetimes to develop, not minutes, hours, or months.I found this book valuable both for its teachings on Buddhism and for its more general advice on attaining peace and happiness in one's life.  There is much in the book of healing and hope, for secular people, for followers of non-Buddhist religions, and for people who are students of the Buddha.
5 This is the first book I've read related to Buddhism or the Dalai Lama and I thought it was an easy read so I consider it good for getting one's feet wet.  Some concepts are probably hard to grasp unless one's an adult, but overall it was simple with a nice message.
5 The life of Holman, the blind traveler was profound and would have perished with the passage of time if it were not for Jason Roberts' brilliant biography which brings Holman magically alive to our generation. I think there are some lives so miraculous, so amazing that words are difficult to find to praise them enough. Holman lived one of those lives. Bless his memory and may his story be told time and again, for his wisdom speaks to us even today. Travelers will especially be moved by his fearless sense of wonder about the world and the diverse cultures that God has created on this planet. Truly one of the best biographies on the market! Wow!
5 In the good old days this fascinating true-life story would have been snapped up by Hollywood and been turned into an epic film directed by David Lean. But with Hollywood currently obsessed with giant robots and vampires, we'll have to be content with Jason Roberts' loving and engrossing account (which admittedly spends a disproportionate amount of time on Holman's early life and travels).
5 I enjoyed this book very much. It's quite a life story and the narrative is filled with bits of history, not to mention plenty of insight into human nature. I highly recommend it.
5 Jason Roberts does an exquisite job of research on a man whose very own autobiography most likely was thrown away after being stored in a madhouse owned by Holman's friend for several decades.  Hats off to Roberts for so thoroughly researching this amazing man, but now about Holman himself.Roberts does an excellent job of portraying James Holman's early life as a lieutenant on a ship in the Americas, getting his first taste of the world and exploration. Holman lost his sight in his mid 20's from what we later learn is most likely idiopathic blindness, meaning there is really no explanation for exactly why he went blind.Holman made several trips, first attempting to circumnavigate the world east through Siberia and Russia, only to be turned back after being suspected of being a spy. He would later begin his true circumnavigation of the world westward to confuse people because he was all too cognizant that there were many who would have held him back from doing so because of his condition.  Yet deep down, he was not a man whose nature allowed him to stay in one place for very long.  His circumnavigation was later published in a book entitled A Voyage Round the World.The mere fact that he completed several trips encompassing a total of 250,000 miles, with one total circumnavigation of the globe is remarkable enough. But the fact that he did all of this in the early 19th Century as a blind man is what makes his story so astounding.  And it is made even moreso by the fact that he liked to undertake his journeys alone, and without understanding the language of the countries in which he traveled, but rather picking it up as he went along. And he lived in a time when there were no special accommodations made for the blind.  En total, remarkable does not begin to describe what he did.James Holman put all of his thoughts to paper via a Noctograph, a device used to aid the transcription for the blind. He would carry this with him the world over, and detail every nuance, down to the paint on tribal peoples' faces, so detailed in fact that it was more thorough and descriptive than that of his contemporaries who also wrote travel essays. Charles Darwin even used his writings as a reference.The one criticism one could make of A Sense of the World is the fact that it is exhaustively detailed in the early part of Holman's life but much less so in the later years. But again, this is probably due to the paucity of references Roberts had to work with in putting this work together, as I am sure he would have been more thorough if indeed he had been able to provide us with those details, as Roberts' respect and admiration for the man shows in his writing on every page.James Holman was truly an exceptional man. You would be well advised to get to know this remarkable person, who almost went by the wayside of history.One of the best biographies I have ever read.
4 Picked this one up on clearance at the bookstore, and I'm so glad I did! A fascinating account of James Holman, an English naval lieutenant who went blind in the early years of the 19th century, but who refused to live a limited, sedentary, holed-up life. In the days before railroads, he hit all major settled continents, traveling mostly alone and on a shoestring. His writings earned him fame and a little money before times moved on, and he became, when not completely forgotten, a figure of fun. (How could a blind guy write about seeing the world?--and other such criticisms.) Holman was a founding member of what later became the Royal Geographical Society. He was a friend of Dr. James Clarke in Rome and stayed in Keats' house by the Spanish Steps shortly after Keats died! Holman's writings were quoted at length by Charles Darwin in Darwin's own writings because he found Holman's work so thorough and accurate.Roberts writes with humor and admiration, and he certainly made a Holman fan out of me.
5 Many book reviewers have been known to say that a particular work is one they couldn't put down. This may be one such work. Roberts has done a superb job bringing an essentially unknown to the public's eye. Much can be said about Holman & his travels. In addition to all that, I was attracted to the rabbit trails Roberts included... those little sorties of other information which added to the overall effect of a walk into the past with a man without sight. These brought new levels of understanding on problems or issues few of us would or could imagine. If anything beside praise comes to Roberts for his efforts it may be that someone will come across this book and be encouraged by it... to the extent of not giving up when the going gets tough. Who among us today would even consider attempting something along the lines of what Holman accomplished?  Far to many of us are afraid of walking across the street, let alone... trying to cover the globe.  Reading this material I was reminded of "Blind Courage," Bill Irwin's 1994 account of his walk, while blind, of the Appalachian Trail in 1990.Hopefully many readers will find Roberts book and will take the time to stand with a man willing to take a risk.
5 Jason Roberts is an amazing and obsessive writer. A SENSE OF THE WORLD, his biography of Lt. James Holman of England, is one of my favorite books. While I bought it new, it never occurred to me to review it. I was too busy reading and loving it. In fact, its excellence helped me navigate my way through a dreadful illness.Known as "The Blind Traveler", Lt. Holman, who was completely blinded at a young age - I suspect by Multiple Sclerosis but Roberts does not speculate - would have been known to people such as Jane Austen and others. He was known literally all over the world. From Darwin to the Royal Family (King William IV and of course Queen Victoria was very aware of him), from Burton to Dickens, Holman was known ... and due to his greatness in spite of his blindness, feared.Perhaps it was because this unsighted man literally put unknown locations on the map."I see best with my feet," Holman once wrote. He traveled tirelessly, out of ennui, a sense of adventure, and a desire to meet everyone he could. This was a born ethnologist, an anthropologist without peer, a man who wanted to get to know people. He met another great unsighted man who is known to us as the "bee scientist", Francois Huber - Holman got to hear first hand about his progress in learning about how beehives work on the inside.Eventually Lt. Holman would save Queen Victoria from a Constitutional crisis with a brilliant legal maneuver he conceived himself. Later, he would be granted the special status allowing him to board and sail with any English vessel, anytime, anywhere.Here is a formidable man, one at the center of our modern civilization and one who was present during a time of Great Men. He was one of the greatest. Holman traveled at a time when the blind were as bad off as they were in Japan. A Japanese film character partly based on Holman, ZATOICHI, enjoys a 26 film series, 100-episode TV series and a ton of remakes.Like that character, Holman lived at a time when the blind were thought to be riddled with venereal disease, or treated as retarded. Perhaps that is one reason Holman traveled. Moreover, Lt. Holman was a great natural teacher. From this book, and from him, I learned to face illness, distress and all suffering with cheer, optimism and wise caution. I cannot ever equal Holman, but I can try.Holman, a cheerful, tough and plucky old soul, conquered Vesuvius at the expense of his boots, his feet and his walking stick - all of them descended slightly charred, burned, smoky and exhilarated. While crossing the horrid wastes of Siberia, Holman almost died, which he was quite accustomed to, and was ultimately dragged from the country and unceremoniously dumped in Poland. The Russians didn't want him to see they were trying to infiltrate America.It is one detail that summarizes the greatness of Holman and this book: the blind can see! Why do we assume they cannot see? They see in their way and we see in our way.Roberts gives a satisfying, detailed and affectionate account, writes with tremendous skill for a man of his generation, and offers here a compelling oeuvre that one cannot really stop reading. Every time I am laid up, flu, MS flare-up or cold, I grab Roberts' book and am off to another land, another time. Being with Holman makes it all better. What a man, and what a disgrace that time has forgotten him.You will be transported also. You cannot know what it is to be unsighted or to lose your sight unless it has happened to you, but this book will inspire you with the story of a man who went blind very young, took life by its horns and never let go. What is most beautiful about Holman's story is that here is a man who was a great anthropologist, a naturalist, sometime climatologist, physician (he did medical school twice for the fun of it and attended certain courses thrice) - and is even cited by Darwin as an expert in certain flora and fauna.Lt. Holman was not just a retired naval officer: he was an 'ungraduated' M.D. (it cost too much to get one's diploma from the University of Edinburgh back then) and a proud Fellow of the Royal Society. He helped found the Raleigh Club, known today as the Royal Geographic Society which did not bother to extend a membership to its most famous co-founder.He was a Knight of Windsor; he was welcomed everywhere he went. He was an expiditionist, if one may call him thus, not an adventurer but a scientist, a man set on experiencing everyone and everything. His reports and writings are invaluable, and that is the worst of Holman's story: he is forgotten. Read this and do not forget him!Holman's superior travel adventure books are rare, and costly, but you can still buy a few. Of course many are not available, and Roberts' biography will also let you in on the sad secret of Holman's final, unpublished autobiography. But just do a search using his name as author, and you'll see what he saw!
5 By exploring the world through the eyes of a blind man, Roberts has written the best kind of historical fiction. "Sense" is factual, focused and includes just enough detail to make the story move me into the time and impact of the hero's life.
5 In the early eighteen hundreds it is difficult to image a blind man, not speaking any of the local languages, not having much money being a world traveller. Yet it is true. James Holman lost his eyesight due to some mysterious illness while in the British Navy. Medically retired he  was eventually advised to take a trip to the Mediterranian coast. He went by himself. Being there did not improve his condition but the ides of travelling did.From this beginning he essentially travelled the rest of his life, apparently travelling some 250,000 miles and supporting himself by his small pension and by writing. One of his books, A Voyage Round the World, Volume 1, Including Travels in Africa, Asia, Australasia, America, etc., etc., from 1827 to 1832 is available on line at no charge - see books-on-line.com and do a search on James Holman.This book is a very well researched, very well written biography. It is a quiet testimony to a blind person from two centuries ago when even rudamentory devices such as the white cane had not been invented.
4 I have the Kindle version and realized about four chapters in that none of the images included in the print version are available in the Kindle version (there's a note to that effect at the beginning, but I didn't see anything concerning this when I was ordering it for Kindle.) I've ordered a used print copy as I really think having the pictures available will enhance my reading of this very interesting book.
5 I just finished reading this book and I loved it.  Not only did I learn about Mr. Holman's amazing life, but I got a clear sense of the period in which he lived.  All in all a great read.  I recommend it to all, but especially those who love history.
5 I read this book with my 15 year old son.  We saw a review of it in the Washington Post newspaper and we fully agree that this is a great read.  I recommend it to anyone interested in finding out more about James Holman, the Blind Traveler.  We felt as if we really knew him by the end of the book.  The author does a terrific job of taking the reader along on Holman's adventures.  It reads like part travelogue, part mystery, part biography, part history of the time period.  I wish I could have met Mr. Holman.  What an inspiration !
5 A Sense of the World: How a Blind Man Became History's Greatest Traveler tells of an early sightless adventurer who fought the slave trade in Africa, survived captivity in Siberia, and hunted elephants in Ceylon - among other things. He was an amazing explorer of the early 1800s - and a celebrity of his times - but died in obscurity that has lasted until now. A SENSE OF THE WORLD uses much research to recreate James Holman's life, times, and adventures and provides a vivid memoir hard to put down: any interested in adventure travel will find this a fine, absorbing survey.Diane C. DonovanCalifornia Bookwatch
5 My well-read friend from Harrisburg highly recommended this book and she was right. It is outstanding...you think you are reading a novel, but to realize this is a true story is downright amazing.  The indomitable spirit of the human being, the determination to go where others haven't, the courage to take on challenges and overcome, that's what this book is all about. Read it ! You'll love it!
5 Jason Roberts has done a fantastic job researching and writing about a forgotten "celebrity" of the early 19th century, a man made historically obscure largely by misconceptions and prejudices against the blind.James Holman would not become blind until age 25. He was an ambitious, thoughtful, assertive, resourceful, moral man who was willing to work hard and pay his dues to rise up the social ladders that were such an integral part of British society. Holman's ambition was tempered by his unquenchable, sincere, and respectful curiosity about other lands, cultures, people, languages, literature, and science - a remarkably open-minded man for the time. Holman reminds me of a wandering and gregarious Henry David Thoreau, though he was not as philosophical, he was certainly just as fond of intense observation, quiet and solitary contemplation, and sharing his thoughts in written form, even if he wasn't fond of living by a pond.Holman's travels around the world and his writings would be remarkable even if he were sighted, healthy, and independently wealthy. That he was none of these makes this story not only more fantastic but compulsively readable. At the time, anyone who declared an interest in traveling the world on foot and horseback, alone, for pleasure and curiosity, would have been thought out of his senses and possibly locked up for his own good. But Holman was not out of his senses, even with the loss of his sense of sight. What is even more amazing, partly because it is so understated, is that Holman manages to pull it off without drawing much attention to his blindness or to his own accomplishments. For Holman, the subject is the world, not himself. By all accounts, he was a man with whom people around the world liked to be in company, and it's easy to understand why. But then, as the author states, Holman was a man who could form attachments and perhaps more importantly let them go, as needed. But as much as Holman relied on the hospitality and generosity of people, he never took advantage. He never overstayed his welcome or stayed in any one place merely for comfort or convenience.I must agree with other reviewers at being surprised that this book is not available on audio. But such things are not controlled by the author or even the publisher. This is a fine book of narrative history and biography, and includes ample excerpts from Holman's writings. There are also chapter notes and a bibliography, but strangely, no index in the hardback edition I read.
5 I must thank the author for doing the research and bringing the adventures of this obsure hero to light.  Here was a man who traveled the world in a time when travel was difficult and grueling.  He was blind, suffered from arthritis and at various times, pneumonia, malaria, and worse, the "treatments" that doctors offered in an attempt to make him better.  As I read of his amazing adventures I couldn't help but look at my own "hardships" in a different way.  I recently traveled to England, and had the chance to visit London, Windsor, St. George's Chapel, and the coastal town of Portsmouth, where I toured the HMS Victory, a battleship that sailed during Holman's era.  I was glad to have had those mental images to refer to as I read this book.  Holman should be a national hero in Britian!  And not so much as a statue exists to commemorate him.  I'll be passing this book on to friends--to keep this great story alive.
3 IMHO, Lt. Holman, the blind traveller, was one of the greatest hoaxers in history.  You'd have to be pretty gullible to believe this guy was really blind.  Medicene was not advanced enough at the time to determine with certainty what his true condition was, and Holman, a talented storyteller and writer, used this fact to retain a military pension and obtain membership in an honorary order of the crown.  Not having to work to earn a living afforded him the opportunity and time to travel around the world at his leisure.  Faked afflictions were not an uncommon practice back then  (they still are today), and it's obvious that many of Holman's activities and descriptions in this book would be flatly impossible for a blindman to do.  Read with a grain of salt.
4 "The Lucky Ones" is not really a novel - it is a series of stories, bound together by some characters, but because each of them explores the thoughts and feelings of one person, each can be treated as a separate entity.The characters come from all social classes and backgrounds in contemporary England - Kirsty is an expectant mom, in prison for a murder she did not commit; Vanessa is a stay-at-home mother in a hopeless marriage; Martin is a new father, distancing himself from his wife and a week-old daughter on a skiing trip; the conventional, old-fashioned middle-class Mrs Daley is a mother of a woman with post-partum depression... All the characters are connected by a common theme - the relationships and children, and how they deal with family issues. Their attitudes vary, but all are depicted with rare sharpness and clarity. They are lost and searching, doubtful and stubborn, conservative and revolutionary, forming a strange, although perhaps typical sample of society. I often found my own thoughts in theirs (although a lot of their wondering was unfamiliar to me). Children are central to the narrative, although they are not main characters, their existence is essential; the stories concentrate on different aspects of motherhood.Rachel Cusk writes in a lucid, crisp prose, capturing the internal monologues and thoughts with ease. I liked the connections between characters and, common for all chapters, presence of Victor and Serena Porter- a terminally ill lawyer and his wife, who writes a family column for a newspaper (author's alter ego?).This was the first book by Cusk I have read but I liked the psychological depth and nuances, and the explorations of family life, so much that I will read something else of hers soon.
4 I grabbed a copy of The Lucky Ones on impulse, and I'm glad I did.  It drew me in from the start and I enjoyed the ups and downs of the stories, the varied moods, and the authentic feel of the stories within.  I particularly enjoyed Cusk's grasp of extremely different views and backgrounds among her characters.  She seems to have a tremendous "feel" for human nature which makes all of the stories feel rich and alive.  It also had a nice balance of light and dark, there was beauty in every story and a little bit of the darker side of life as well. It made me want to explore more of Cusk's work in the future.
3 The Lucky Ones is Rachel Cusk's fifth book. In it, there is a Contents page, which announces five sections. Each section stands by itself. There is a passing reference in each section to at least one character in another section. With a lovely circularity, the last section ends with, I believe, the only reference to the main character in the first section. A wonderful collection of linked stories. But the book, on its cover, calls itself a novel. I don't think so. Still, the author's writing throughout is even better in this book than her last.The final section of The Lucky Ones is my favorite. In it, she goes into that depth of truthfulness that characterizes a work of substance. "'You're doing well for yourself,' said Vanessa sourly. 'And all that happened,' mused Serena, 'was that I finally worked out that people prefer what's true to what's right.'"Cusk writes about shaping a day: "It seemed to Vanessa that she should do something to please Colin on his return from work, and this ambition immediately rose like a great spire from the humble structure of the day."Finally, perhaps my favorite paragraph: "It was in the mornings that Vanessa most often suspected the existence of a problem. In the rumpled dawn camouflage of her bed she would open her eyes and think of the coming day and sometimes, just as when sometimes she turned the key in the ignition of her old Honda, nothing would happen. She lay there, paralyzed by the image of what she had both to construct and then to dismantle before being returned to this same bed, like a book being returned to its shelf, intact and yet somehow depleted of her information."
5 This collection of stories is fanatastic. One, entitled "Mrs. Daly's Daughter," is probably one of the best short stories I've ever read. This book has a great deal of warmth, heart, and insight. Of all Rachel Cusk's books, I feel this is her best.
2 I read this book for the first time in the summer of 2004, and decided to re-visit it four years later. It hadn't made a memorable impression on me from that summer, but I did recall liking it. This time around, I was shocked by how little I had remembered about it, so unfortunately, though this set of four short stories that interlink together was interesting, it was rather forgettable. The links between the stories provided the most fascinating aspect of this rather hard to classify book as a whole. The book was certainly well written, though, but unfortunately not very relatable. When it ended, it just felt lacking...  There was nothing really hatable about the book, but certainly nothing lovable either.
5 Made me laugh out loudHas the single funniest sentence I have ever read in a book but also taught me a lot about a lot of places he visitsI can honestly say one of the few books I would make  time to read again. I have bought several as giftsI hope he writes many more books
4 Another hilarious outing by the late Pete McCarthy, whose McCarthy's Bar was a great find on our trip to Ireland. In this book, rather than making sure to enter every bar with his name on it in Ireland, McCarthy travels around the globe to visit locations with his name on them, including Tangier, New York City, Tasmania, Montserrat, Montana, and Alaska among others. McCarthy is a very funny writer and a charming travel companion who provides much interesting historical perspective and detail of the Irish diaspora on the trip.
5 While it is old news, I just completed a google search to find out when Pete McCarthy might be releasing a new book. I was stunned and saddened to hear of his passing in October following an 8 month bout with cancer. I had no idea.I loved this book as well as his previous offering - McCarthy's Bar.  If you don't take yourself too seriously, nor are you one easily offended when someone takes the mickey out of the Irish, then you too will find yourself howling as you read Mr. McCarthy's observations.  Look at the reviews.  Obviously, Pete McCarthy was not for everyone.  I however, thought he was the most hilarious travel writer out there.  It is one of those books that I can pass along to someone and say, "If you don't think this is funny, then we have absolutely nothing in common."Next time I'm in a pub, I'll steal a quiet moment, say a small prayer, drink one for Pete McCarthy and look for something completely absurd happening around me.  Rest in peace Mr. McCarthy.
4 Pete McCarthy has a wonderfully perverse view of the world with a keen eye for a locale and the ability to write it all down in a way that comes out delightfully funny.  In this book he travels around the world looking for all things McCarthy and imbues an Irish hue to everything with a variety of brewed, distilled, and fermented beverages for flavoring.While his style seems off-hand and even happenstance, it is clear he takes time to dig into the history of the places he visits and is able to use that history as a way to move his narrative along and to propel his adventures.  If you like travel writing - especially humorous travel writing - you will likely enjoy this book.  Particularly if you view the world with an Irish bent to things.  I think you will find this a fund way to spend a few hours on a fun vacation with a witty travel companion.
4 Pete McCarthy was actually born Peter Charles McCarthy Robinson in Warrington, a town in the north-west of England. He was the eldest son of an Irish mother, who'd moved to England to work as a nurse. Naturally, there was an Irish influence on his upbringing : he was educated by the Christian Brothers and, in his childhood, spent his summer holidays with his mother's family in West Cork. Before moving into travel writing, Pete had worked on television, and adopted his mother's maiden name to avoid confusion with another actor. (It also spared him from sharing a name with a noted Northern Irish politician - who, unlike our author - has no great love for the Irish Republic). "The Road to McCarthy" was his second book, and - like "McCarthy's Bar" - takes a good look at the Irish. However, this time round, he's looking largely at the disapora and the majority of the book is spent away from Ireland. There's a trip to Tangier to meet the man who was once the McCarthy Mor - as opposed to Moor - followed by a trip to New York for St Patrick's Day. (Here, he was scared to death by a large gathering of unrepentent Celtic supporters). He takes a trip to Tasmania, formerly a penal colony known as Van Dieman's Land - among the former prisoners was Thomas Meagher, transported for his part in the Young Irelander Rebellion of 1848. Meagher later escaped to America, and went on to become Governor of Montana - with McCarthy going on to visit his statue in the state's capital. He visits Montserrat - another Emerald Isle, though an awful lot sunnier (and slightly more volcanic) than the one I'm used to. (I knew nothing of the island before I read this book : now, I'd love to visit - solely on the strength of what McCarthy has written). Pete does take things one step further than his previous book, though : instead of visiting McCarthy's Bar, this time he he tracks down a town called McCarthy. (It's in Alaska, and saw its population doubled when a new family moved in).Like "McCarthy's Bar", this is a very readable, hugely enjoyable, genuinely funny and occasionally sad book - but it's also very informative, thanks to the odd history lesson. (His turkey stories - that's the bird, rather than the country - are among the finest I've ever stumbled across). Pete McCarthy sadly died in 2004, before he was able to tackle Northern Ireland in print.
5 My favorite travel essayist - until now - has been Bill Bryson of Iowa (NOTES FROM A SMALL ISLAND, NEITHER HERE NOR THERE, IN A SUNBURNED COUNTRY, A WALK IN THE WOODS). Sorry, Bill. Stand aside for Pete McCarthy.Author McCarthy was born in England of a Protestant English father and a Catholic Irish mother. This leads to a guilt-ridden, divided allegiance, especially when it's England vs. Ireland in football. However, in THE ROAD TO MCCARTHY, Pete's maternal side predominates as he takes us on an irreverent tour of Gibraltar, Tangiers, New York City, Tasmania, Montserrat, Montana and McCarthy, Alaska in search of far-flung evidence of Ireland and his clan's roots.Why such disparate destinations you might ask? Well, Tangiers is home to the quasi-official chief of Clan McCarthy. And Gibraltar is just on the other side of the strait, so why not drop in? The Big Apple hosts the world's biggest St. Patrick's Day Parade. Tasmania, off Australia's southeast corner, was the brutal island prison to which Irish separatists were sent in the mid-nineteenth century, including one Thomas Francis Meagher, who subsequently escaped to become a Union general in the American Civil War and, briefly, Governor of Montana, the present day home of the head of the North American Clan McCarthy Association. The Caribbean island of Montserrat, the southern half of which is closed off because of active vulcanism, is the British colony to which destitute Irish men and women were once sent as slaves. And isolated McCarthy, AL (population 20) was named for a rugged copper miner who drowned in a local river in 1910.Following the threads of Ireland and Clan McCarthy seems just an excuse as Pete regales the reader with observations about his immediate surroundings and the world in general. Like Bryson, his perspective filters through an offbeat sense of humor. But, while Bryson's is gentle and only slightly askew, McCarthy's is truly bent and with a sharper edge. For instance, when commenting on the current state of the British rail system:&quot;Most stations aren't manned these days because it isn't cost-effective, so there's no one to collect the tickets, or the sick (i.e. vomit). Official policy is to rely on gradual dispersal by rook or magpie, unless they strike lucky and someone slips and mops it up with the back of their overcoat.&quot;He can also be charmingly self-deprecating, as when advised in Alaska as to the proper response if meeting an aggressive black bear (fight back) or a grizzly (play dead).&quot;... it would be foolish not to consider what you would do if confronted by one; but try as I may, I can't see myself coming up with much besides the weeping and the incontinence.&quot;THE ROAD TO MCCARTHY is a compendium of laughs that I couldn't put down.Finally, in all places except Alaska, Pete discovers that one can watch reruns of the American comedy &quot;Cheers&quot; on the telly. This is good to know should I ever wash up onto the doorstep of a seedy Tangiers hotel.
2 I am reading this book because it was selected for the book club I'm in.  A friend recommended it to a friend and told her it was "really funny."  She checked it on Amazon and saw that it got 4 stars.  Unfortunately, she didn't realize 4 stars by 5 people.I am only in the second chapter and it is as funny as a tooth extraction.  I gave the author 2 stars for his doggedness - he never stops trying to be funny.  For example, I am going to open the book to a random page and give you an example of his humor:"Being among other human beings acts as a civilising influence, providing a concrete reason for getting washed and dressed in the morning."  HA HA HA HEEE HEE HEE SO FUNNY ISN'T IT!!!!!!If you thought the above quote was humourous - read this book - it is packed full of them.  As a matter of fact, you can have mine for free, minus shipping costs.
5 Another McCarthy gem. He has an amazing gift for observation and the rare ability to serve it up in the most hilarious manner, rife with parallel stories and analogies. It's like watching a Craig Ferguson monologue. He's moving so fast you have to keep up with  him, and it's well worth the effort. It's a tragedy we lost him before he could produce a third book. Not to be unkind, but I marvel at the negative reviews and assume the authors are missing the nuances of McCarthy's style, or are just more comfortable with a simple story line.
5 I got this and the other Pete McCarthy book for my father on his way to Ireland for his dream trip. He loved it and still quotes it to this day. FINALLY a gift the old man likes.
4 Fast-paced, often hilarious, this book is also gently thought-provoking.  I was allowed to read a pre-publication copy while I was staying at Ma Johnson's Hotel in McCarthy Alaska.  The author is astoundingly entertaining as the reader travels the globe in search of &quot;all places McCarthy&quot;.  Highly recommended.
4 Not as funny as MACCARTHY'S BAR but still a great read.  Learned a lot about the man and wish he were still around to write more.
5 I ordered this book and received it in a couple of days. The condition of the book was great and better than expected. The book is a fun filled travel log of Ireland by the English/Irish writer Pete McCarty as he seeks to decide whether he is more Irish than English. He meets some very interesting people and decribes the places he visits in tongue-in-check detail. This is a warm hearted search for one's roots. I highly recommend it. I only wish Pete would have been around to write more a two or three books.
5 There's something about the Irish, isn't there? They seem able to poke fun at themselves as successfully as they are able to poke it at others. While Pete McCarthy is only half Irish, a percentage I'll bet he wishes he could change to at least  Irish, you'd never know it by his writing. He sounds Irish to his ale and whiskey-drinking core. His style most reminds me of Bill Bryson; they both have a similar ability to stand aside and look at life and one's own place in it with an eye toward humor, compassion, and appreciation for the foibles of our human race.In The Road to McCarthy, the author takes us with him on what amounts to a travelogue as he gallivants around the world in search of kinfolk and towns and villages that serendipitously share his name - and faith and begore, the lad does find himself in some oddball situations. In fact, I think his compass doesn't turn toward North as much as it turns toward Daffy.Delightful addition to a shelf of whimsical, irreverent travel books.
5 I travel to montserrat frequently and Pete McCarthy hit a homerun in his description of the emerald isle of the caribbean
4 One of McCarthy's hilarious travelogues about the world and the places he's been. In this tale, McCarthy searches for his history and namesakes spread far across the globe. He is specifically going after the supposed head of the McCarthy clan, and finds some very interesting characters along the way.McCarthy's sharp eye for detail makes the book go along well enough, but it becomes a howl when he describes just about everything in a style worthy of Monty Python.Things I have learned about the world through this book:1. I will never go to Tangier. Ever.2. Montserrat is a lovely place to visit, even though half the island was laid waste by a volcano and is now an "Exclusion Zone."3. Dublin should never be visited when England and Ireland play in rugby, or in any other sport for that matter.4. Butte, Montana should never be visited in winter.5. Alaska should be toured on roads that are covered in asphalt.A glorious look at the world and of us...!
3 This book is way too choppy and contrived. But there are some good moments. It's worth a read, but know what you're getting.
4 As I thumbed through this book in the bookstore prior to purchasing it, I got the impression it would be about how science discovered the Big Bang and how the Big Bang came to be canonized in cosmology.  That is exactly what Simon Singh did with this book.  Some of us have science backgrounds, and so much of the first half of the book is seen as unnecessary or at least too long.  Those with no science background may have enjoyed the stories of Copernicus, Kepler, etc. more than Hoyle's hurt feelings later in the saga.I feel Singh accomplished what he set out to do.  It's too long, and I think he could have summarized much of the early history of astronomy and our understanding of the basics of our galaxy.  This is a pretty petty concern, and I'll admit it.  I wanted to find out how the Big Bang even entered someone's mind, and I wanted to know just how supported and accepted it is (and why).  This book did it for me; and if you have a science background and like to read, you'll find it really interesting.
5 Excellent. Breathtaking, informative and fun. A book to read more than once. It is a great collateral reading for undergraduate students, people from other fields of science and even for those who have a professional interest in cosmology.
5 This book is not only about the physics behind or under the Big Bang theory but mainly about its ascension from the lower plains of initial and tenuous discussions up to the pinnacle of science. This is basic to understand what are you going to read before deciding to buy the book.First of all you need to know that Simon Singh also wrote "Fermat's enigma," which is as good and well written as this one. I read both and it is hard for me to say which one is better, but what I did know is that both books are mandatory readings for anyone interested in science and how it explains everything we know for certain.In this vein, Big Bang is the history of a competition between ideas that followed the Einstein's theory of gravity, ideas brought with the equations or that were implicit in them. What Alexander Friedman, Georges Lematre and others did, was to make them explicit, to show their implications in terms of an (in some sense unexpected) origin to the universe.Einstein wasn't convinced from the very beginning and in so doing and furthermore being the prevailing idea of a static universe so strongly rooted in the zeitgeist of the times (1920s), the war was declared among contradictory positions.Subsequent observations and a vast amount of measurements and discussion made that Big Bang theory began to gain adherents and supporters. This is what Simon Singh tells us in a very funny and highly explanatory style: in fact, every time we need a drawing he puts it, and when (or if) we need a metaphor he gives us a very good one.He is not a journalist but a physicist who knows how to explain very difficult things. In fact, I gave the book to my wife promising her that she would understand everything about the Big Bang theory. At first she didn't believe me (she is a psychologist so she shouldn't) but after reading the book she gave me five stars for the recommendation, the same stars I give to the work of Mr. Singh.Highly recommended.
5 Other than that, this book is nearly flawless!  It is an historical overview of all the scientific endeavors that lead to the discovery and ultimately acceptance of the big bang model of the origin of the universe, but it reads like a drama.  There are many interesting characters who greatly contributed in various ways, and their scientific achievements as well as personal stories makes this book a page turner.The author begins with some of humanities very earliest knowledge of the cosmos.  He even explains in simple terms how once we were able to calculate the size of the earth, we were able to approximate the sizes of both the sun and moon as well as their distances, all using elementary methods.  The story continues as we learn about the discoveries of Kepler, Galileo, Newton, and other famous names in the "classical" understanding of the universe.  One thing that was very interesting was how the author made the case that at the time, humanity had very good reasons for holding to geocentrism, including geocentrism's ability to predict things as well as the inability to detect the parallax shifts.  This was due to the fact that the stars were WAY further from us then we could have possibly imagined.  The justification for holding to geocentrism in then contrasted with the fact that as our telescopes improved, many scientists refused to accept the new theory and wanted to cling to the old.  This is also seen when the author discusses Einstein's theory of relativity.  His theory implied an overthrow of some of Newton's theories, which seemed to be tried and true tested.  But that was because of the scale that we were working with.  It was with Einstein's theory of relativity that some of the scientific community began to see that the universe may have begun to exist, and so the big bang model begins to form.  From here, we meet many fascinating characters, including Gamow and Hubble.  The author goes on to explain many of the phenomena that the big bang model could not explain at the time, and then shows when it was explained, by whom, and how.  It was a very fascinating and easy read.  One does not need to know much science (if any) to appreciate this book and the drama that is the story of the big bang.
5 This was a fun book to read.  It explained all the historical and current theories of the Big Bang in a way that a non-scientist like me could understand and enjoy.  It was a quick read, too.  I think I plowed through it in a week.  Not bad for someone who's usually more interested in science FICTION than science FACT.  There was even a smattering of suspense in there.  (There's this part where these guys are trying to clean their radio telescope because there's this static they keep hearing, and I actually said out loud, "oh, I know!  It's the..." OK, I'll keep you in suspense too.  But read it.  It's good.  And I'm not remotely a dork!)
4 well written and interesting on the history and the people of cosmology.  how they changed their thinking by asking questions and their successors continuing their work.  from ancient greece to modern america.  a good read.
5 Simon Singh has written a wonderfully readable and comprehensive history of cosmology beginning with ancient thought through modern developments culminating in the general acceptance of the Big Bang Theory.  Singh describes theoretical concepts in clear terms, with words and pictures, rather than formulas.  His writing makes the study of the origin of the universe a fascinating drama, which he enhances with biographical information about the key scientists involved.  At the end of each chapter he provides an excellent synopsis of the state of affairs in clear hand-written notes.  Above all, Singh shows how the Big Bang Theory emerged through the application of the scientific method, by relying on investigation, empirical analysis, and scrutiny from leading cosmologists and scientists.  Singh also addresses the even larger questions involved in this subject, and includes thoughts of other scientific giants, like Carl Sagan, who says that we may now understand that the Big Bang happened, but why it happened is the greatest mystery we know.
5 Big Bang is in essence a history of astronomy, or more precisely, cosmology, the study of the universe. Obviously, this is quite a large field of study, but one that Simon Singh accomplishes beautifully.Despite his education, Simon Singh can write, and write well. He can explain difficult, mind-bending concepts and vast measurements of scale better than probably anyone alive. And what do I mean by 'despite his education', for Simon Singh is really Simon Singh, Ph.D., with a degree in particle physics from Cambridge University, the school that gave us such scientists as Sir Isaac Newton, Stephen Hawking, Charles Darwin, James Clerk Maxwell, Rutherford, and Alan Turing. After working at CERN in Switzerland for a while after graduation, he decided to become an author, journalist, and TV producer, with the goal of bringing science to the everyday man (and woman). The problem is, of course, that most scientists cannot write, at least stuff that you and I can understand. Well, Dr. Singh can do that.The Big Bang traces the history of the theory of the Earth and the universe from the ancient Egyptians calculating, with remarkable accuracy, of the size of the Earth, to experiments requiring sophisticated satellites that must orbit the earth for years, making measurements that are impossible to make from earth, before useful data can be collected from them.Dr. Singh talks about how astronomers calculate the distance to planets, other stars, and even other galaxies. He talks about telescopes, compasses, and radio telescopes. He talks about gravity, spacetime, and relativity. He talks about measurements being taken that must be accurate to four or more decimal places to be useful.This really is a superb book, and very well written. I have just read it, but plan on reading it again within a few months, to help cement some of the knowledge into my brain.Highly recommended.
5 Almost everyone has heard of "The Big Bang" and its claim that the Universe began with an "explosion" from an infinitesimally small point some fifteen billion years ago.  It is one of those terms that everyone needs to know something about in order to be connected to the larger culture.  You don't have to agree with it or believe, but you need to know about it.  This book is a terrific way to gain an overview of the theory, its history, and its connection to the history of astronomy since Ptolemy and the earth centered universe."The Big Bang" is a terrific read because Simon Singh is an exceptionally talented writer who is able to open even arcane subjects for the general reader.  He has a special gift for knowing just how much a subject needs to be simplified while leaving it just challenging enough to make the reader think a bit and puzzle things out in order to appreciate the intellectual change the new insight represents.  Mr. Singh also humanizes the story by keeping the men and women who made these discoveries front and center.It is the human rivalries, their mistakes, and their genius that attracts us and keeps us turning the pages to find out what happens next.  And what a cast this book has.  Just some of the big names are Ptolemy, Copernicus, Galileo, Brahe, Kepler, Newton, Hubble, Hoyle, and Einstein.  There are dozens of important names I am not listing here simply because they aren't as well known as they deserve to be.I love the story of how Eratosthenes made a pretty good calculation of the circumference of the earth using a stick, a well, some careful measurements, and trigonometry.  Once that distance is known, figuring out the size and distance of the moon and the Sun are not that hard.  Singh takes on a journey of expanding horizons, difficult intellectual puzzles, ever better observations, and hypotheses that get confirmed or drop away.Fred Hoyle and his Steady State model is presented as a hero and a genius in this story.  You can read the book to learn more about this model and its modifications.  However, you should know that it was Hoyle who solved the problem of how the heavier elements are synthesized in stars.  It involved an excited state of carbon that had more mass than regular carbon 12.  Singh feels that Hoyle was shamefully treated in his later years and from what we read here it is easy to agree.Singh informs us that proponents for a quasi-steady state model still exist.  However, after COBE and WMAP have confirmed the variation in the background radiation that would indicate an uneven state in the early universe that allowed for the formation of galaxies and other structures, Singh says the current weight of evidence is strongly in favor of "The Big Bang".This really is a fine book for the general reader.  Unless you are already fully conversant in cosmology, this book can add to your knowledge and is a very enjoyable read.I don't say this often, but I believe everyone should read this book.
5 For this reader with a lot formal education, but very little of it in the physical sciences, Simon Singh's `Big Bang' was phenomenally interesting, engaging, intellectually stimulating, readable, and educational. Others with more background in cosmology may find it too basic. Singh takes the reader through the history of cosmology as he builds toward an explanation of the Big Bang theory. The opening chapter explains the ancient's earth-centered (and common sensical) view of the universe and its downfall at the hands of Copernicus, Brahe, Kepler and Galileo. Later chapters follow the disproof of ether, Einstein's special and general theories of relativity, and the `great debate' between the supporters of a static universe and Lemaitre and others who supported the idea of an expanding (Big Bang) universe.A large portion of the book follows the scientific efforts to gather evidence to support one view or the other. The renowned Edwin Hubble and the less so Henrietta Leavitt played key roles in finally providing enough evidence supporting the Big Bang theory to at least make it a credible argument. The remainder of the book follows the debate between the solid state theorists led by Fred Hoyle and the Big Bang backers led first by Gamow and Alpher, but later by others who resolved some of the nagging doubts about the theory, for example, the crucial 1992 proof of tiny variations in cosmic microwave background radiation.Each chapter (at least in the P.S. version) has handy summary notes. Singh provides a useful glossary as well as recommended further readings for each chapter.I generally read 50-75 books a year and rate The Big Bang as one of my top five books of the year. Five measly stars don't do it justice. I will resist the temptation to rate as a supernova, but this book greatly enhanced my understanding of the world around us and was a joy to read.Absolutely the highest recommendation.
5 Everything that can be said about this book has been written in other reviews here, so I won't go into detail. However...I specifically came to Amazon to review this book because it was just that great.  The title is deceiving in that it is about MUCH MORE than just the Big Bang.  It is as if the entire Bible were titled "The Story of Joshua."The book gives a fascinating look at the history of science, and religion's views on science, from prehistory to the modern Big Bang theory. How did mythology evolve into scientific reasoning? How did the ancients view the heavens and explain their observations? How can we tell how far away other stars and Galaxies are? How do we know the universe is expanding? And what are the implications of an expanding universe? Will it expand forever or collapse back in on itself? And why do we care? How did geniuses like Galileo make their discoveries, and why were they persecuted by the Church?Besides exploring these and many other questions, Singh gives us a fascinating behind-the-scenes look at the physicists who made the greatest discoveries in cosmology, how they came to their conclusions, and the rivalry between competing views and personalities in the world of astronomy and cosmology.And... Singh explains how the ancients correctly calculated the diameter of the earth, and the distances to the sun and moon, and does so in a way that almost anyone can understand.  Even me - I didn't have a clue how they did that before reading this book.  How would YOU measure the distance from the earth to the sun? This book will tell you how.Singh, in this book and his other writings, takes his place with Asimov and Sagan among the great science writers who seemingly so easily make the most complex aspects of science accessible to the casual reader. I can't recommend this book enough.
3 Not much here I haven't seen before, but nicely put together.  Certainly a good introduction to the subject, written at a reasonably adult level and very understandable.
4 When I found out that Singh has a new book, I knew it was only a matter of time before I put my hands on it. From "Fermat's last theorem" and "The code book" it was obvious that he has a real knack for writing well about interesting topics in science and mathematics. The "Big Bang" is not different. It is very well written and tells the story of cosmology with such flair that the book reads like a thriller - it's actually hard to put down (for other people, that is, I don't like thrillers). The story is told as a gradual development of theories, from the times of the Greeks to the 1990s. As always, Singh makes an emphasis on the people behind the theories and equations, which is probably what makes the book really readable, but he doesn't forget to present enough interesting scientific facts to make the book interesting from a scientific point of view as well as a historical one.Another interesting thing about this book is the attempt to explain what stands behind scientific discovery. In particular, the complementing roles of theory and experimentation in the progress of human knowledge, and how these two aspects advanced in an interleaving manner to expand our understanding of the universe.I noted that the book delved deeper in the simpler topics but left much of the more complicated theories (which arose in the second part of the 20th century) on a conceptual level. I guess this makes sense because the later theories are so complicated it would ruin the book's "pop-sci" quality to explore these topics more thoroughly. Still, I'd like to get a better understanding of this topics, to see more "meat" (i.e. equations) in the last part of the book.
5 Singh managed to present potentially complicated material in a manner that a regular person could understand.  It was actually a fun and quick read.  I thought that understanding such theories are beyond my reach before I read this book.  I am truely thankful that Singh wrote this book.  (When I say regular person, it presumes that the person have at least take some basic physics in highschool or one physics class in college. Just to give you more idea, when I recently attempted to read a quantum physics intro book, I was lost most of the ways, but I think I understand close to 100% of this book.)  I would give it a 6 star if I can.
5 We highly recommend this book - Singh masterfully develops the evolution of the Big Bang like a well written whodoneit.  He introduces complex theories in an easy to understand manner, even Relativity is easy to understand.  Singh does a terrific job including lesser known figures into his discussion.  He makes the process very human and and personal.  This book is a must for beginners to cosmology and is worth the time of even more experienced readers as Singh provides a very comprehensive view of the big Bang and competing theories...
5 I had read the first two books by Simon Singh, Fermat's Enigma and The Code Book, a I was very pleased with them. However, I'm not very interested in astronomy and the big bang, so I didn't want to read this book at first. However, when I finally decided to give it a go, it turned out to be just as good as the first books! From now on, I'll read everything Simon Singh writes, no matter how boring they may sound!
5 When I bought this book, I imagined it would begin with the discoveries of Mr. Hubble, but I was wrong again!In fact, this book is a history of the entire science of cosmology, and so it begins with tribal myths, and the first struggles of the pre-Socratics --- and then on to the bean-eater, Pythagoras! (Actually, I'm not sure right now, whether Pythagoras required the eating of beans, or forbade it.  Religious nuttery, in either case.)Since I've just been reading William Dunham'sJourney through Genius: The Great Theorems of Mathematics, I was a little surprised to be encountering the same cast of characters all over again, but let me say that Singh's account is much, much better for the general reader. Dunham has no problem covering 2-3 pages with calculus formulas, and Singh wouldn't dream of doing such a thing.  Nevertheless, for the very first time in my life, I have a clear understanding of how the Copernican Revolution occurred.  I used to have a mish-mash of Tyco Brahe, Copernicus, Kepler, and Galileo which was not clearly understood. but Simon Singh explained it to me.  In brief: Copernicus was the first to revive the thoughts of an ancient Greek "heretic" who believed in a sun-centered universe.  But Copernicus wrote very badly, and his book was sabotaged at the printers literally as Copernicus lay dying.  Enter, stage left, Tyco Brahe, an eccentric nobleman who made the most exact astronomical observations in history, and drank too much.  (He also had a metal nose...)  The humble Lutheran "peasant" Kepler was the man who did all the hard math work, using Brahe's observations and Copernicus's theory, and he published the definitive work which explained that the planets did NOT have circular orbits, but elliptical orbits  --- an idea which made "Aristotelians" foam at the mouth.  Finally, enter Galileo (stage right) bearing a weapon of great power --- the telescope.  The telescope eventually proved Kepler right in just about every detail.This is a very enjoyable and educational book, which reminds me of that great TV series, "Connections."  Very highly recommended!
5 Simon Singh's retelling of how the Big Bang theory came about and was confirmed, is an epic tale of how good science is supposed to be done and is supposed to work. It gives a detailed, yet a panoramic view of how we emerged from an era of myth, superstition, and intellectual darkness to the frontiers of the science of Cosmology, Astronomy, Astro and Nuclear physics.The book is organized into five chapters with an epilogue.  However, the most important aspect of the book is that each chapter contains a valuable handwritten and annotated summary with diagrams that can be used to further consolidate ones understanding by visualizing the diagrams, as a way to peek ahead, or to skip interim chapters to more quickly get to the meaty portions of the book. I have used the chapter headings and those summaries as a guide to writing the rest of this review:1.In the BeginningThe story begins at the beginning of science and thus with the Greeks, and continues through contemporary attempts to consolidate the latest findings on the Big Bang Theory. It touches on all of the historical signposts in between, and summarizes the contributions and idiosyncrasies of the cast of characters from the Greeks onwards.It then moves from the Greeks to the Arabs who proved to be the intellectual caretakers of civilization during the Dark Ages, when the Western World was still in an 800-year old intellectual slumber. As the author points out: the same Moors who conquered Spain, were the ones who, after the burning of the great Library of Alexandria, managed to salvage and save for posterity, most of the science the Greeks had invented.Singh then goes on to describe the work and idiosyncrasies of the great giants of scientific discovery and their respective contributions to Big Bang Cosmology. Here, there are many interesting stories to be told and Singh tells them all very well and with a comedic flair.But more importantly, we learn, through Singh's careful descriptions, how the scientific process actually works: its essence being that in the end it must match reality and be open to testing. We also learn about how a Greek Librarian, Eratosthenes, using only logic and the geometry of congruent triangles, was the first to estimate the distance from the earth to the sun and moon and to estimate their sizes and rotation speeds.The reader becomes a spectator to the historical controversy over whether the known universe was geo or helio-centric. Here we see how common sense (what Einstein called the collection of prejudices acquired by age eighteen) can be over-rated and how the influence of religion and racial prejudices can undermine scientific pursuits.Common sense had suggested that the earth must have been both stationary and flat. Otherwise, many thought that on a round and moving earth, people in the Southern Hemisphere would have fallen off. Theologians supported the geocentric model because it was consistent with the Bible. And Westerners as a whole trusted and believed that the Greeks could do no wrong -- even though most of what the Greeks did was filled with errors and even though their philosophical hero, Aristotle, believed that men had more teeth than women. It seemed that the great philosopher, who was married four times, failed to take the time to discover that all of his wives had the same number of teeth as he did.Central to what emerged later was the invention of the telescope and the debates over early models of the universe; namely those of, Copernicus, Ptolemy, and Galileo.2.Theories of the UniverseThe question that animated Cosmology up until the 20th Century was this: Was the universe created or had it existed for eternity? Einstein's theories of relativity, especially his General Theory, dealing with gravity, changed the context of this question. With the general theory, gravity ceased to be a mystery and the entire universe quickly came under the legitimate scope for scientific scrutiny, hypothesizing and empirical testing.The implication of Einstein's gravitational theory was enormous. Among others, it suggested that the universe was NOT static and had NOT existed for eternity, and more importantly, that it was probably unstable as well. The potential impact of this last point was one that even Einstein himself could not stomach. It caused him so much angst in fact that he added his own "fudge factor" called the "Cosmological Constant" to ensure against the universe being unstable. He would later describe this "fudge factor" as the greatest mistake of his career. However, even when Einstein himself had refused to do so, the Russian Physicist Alexander Friedman, and a Belgian Cosmologist and Priest, Georges Lemaitre, took Einstein's theory at face value - Cosmological Constant and all. As a result, they were the first to put forth the fullest implications of Einstein's General Theory of Relativity: the Big Bang theory.3.The Great DebateAlthough Einstein's General Theory of Relativity had set the stage for the great debate about the origin of the universe, the debate itself had to wait until empirical evidence could catch up with theoretical developments. In fact, there were two great debates going on at once: One, taking place on the theoretical plane, the other, on the empirical plane. The theoretical debate centered on the question of whether the universe is static and eternal, or dynamic and finite? The empirical debate centered on the question of whether nebulae seen through telescopes were a part of our Milky Way, or part of another more distant and completely detached galaxic system?This latter debate brought us fully into the modern era of empirical Astronomy, where astronomical star-gazing, with its larger and more precise telescopes, began to allow Astronomers to measure the distances and chemical composition of stars with increasing accuracy.  The pulsation of Cepheid stars became the first and for a long time the only astronomical yardstick by which the universe could be successfully reckoned. At the same time, spectroscopy demonstrated that different atoms emitted and absorbed different wavelengths of light. With these two yardsticks, an empirical revolution rivaling that of Einstein's theoretical one, had begun in earnest. It rapidly began to make its weight felt on both debates.Edwin Hubble, the last true giant of Astronomy, through incessant star-gazing and meticulous measurements, not only proved that the nebulae he saw were independent of our Milky Way, but also that the universe itself was full of such far off galaxies. And more importantly he showed that they were speeding away from our Milky Way at a rate proportional to the distance they were from it (Hubble's Law).Reasoning backwards, Hubble's measurements seem to suggest that at some point in the past, the universe must have existed in a much more condensed and a very much more compact state.4.Mavericks of the CosmosGeorges Lemaitre took Hubble's measurements as evidence that his (Lemaitre's) own theory of the Big Bang was correct. But now, with empirical tools to provide precise measurements and confirmation or falsification, the stakes had been raised immeasurably.  There was a head-to-head challenge to the Big Bang Theory from some of the foremost Astronomers themselves in the form of their own version of a "Steady State Theory" of the Universe.This theory contended that the universe was indeed dynamic as the Big Bang Theory also had claimed, BUT also that the universe was replenishing itself continuously, and filling in blank spaces in the universe with created matter. Therefore, their contention was that the universe could not have begun in a cataclysmic explosion as the Big Bang theorized.If the big bang were to be proven correct, inferences and assertions about a singularity alone would no longer do the trick. The Big Bang theory would need a great deal more circumstantial and corollary support to maintain and justify its continued preeminence. Not only would it have to prove that creation began at a single point in the distant past (as a singularity or as a seed atom according to Lemaitre's formulation), but also it would have to explain how all of the chemical elements that exist within the universe had emerged as a byproduct of the initial birth-giving explosion. As well, it must also demonstrate beyond even a shadow of doubt how the stars and galaxies emerged from the Big Bang - that is it must also explain how matter emerged with its current distribution across the universe.5.Paradigm ShiftThe story of the Big Bang itself ends with the great Astronomer Federick Hoyle (who not coincidentally was one of the major proponents of the "Steady State Theory") who himself made one of the most important discoveries of our times: linking the creation of the heavier elements with the death of stars, and thus binding it to the Big Bang Theory.The first step along this journey, made by George Gamow and his colleagues, of explaining the creation of all of the elements began by explaining how hydrogen could be cooked into helium in the heat and pressure of the early years after the Big Bang. But after this discovery there was a long hiatus before Hoyle made a paradigm shifting discovery: linking the discovery of the heavier elements with the life cycle of stars, that is to the cooling effects taking place within the core of dying stars.The final pieces of the puzzle came together much later in both the Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB), and COBE experiments respectively. The CMB experiments settled the issue of the missing background radiation from the Big Bang; and the COBE experiments demonstrated conclusively that ripples in the background radiation were enough to explain why matter is distributed in the way it is.The EpilogueFrom Singh's deft pen, we are taken on a scientific tour of how wonder about the origins of the universe went from myth, speculation and mystery to theoretical hypothesizing, and how theoretical hypothesizing was turned into a scientific (and thus a testable) hypothesis; and from a testable hypothesis to confirmed facts.Although each of the topics are covered in greater depth in any number of other books, none covers the waterfront we well as Singh has done and puts everything in such a nice readable package.  This was a wonderful ride.  Five Stars
2 This topic is hard to put your mind around.  I had a hard time staying interested.Don't read it unless you have a strong interest in this topic.
5 I have read my fair share of books and this is one the best non-fiction books ever if you ask my humble opinion. Although the title suggests the work is limited to the Big Bang theory, the fact is that the book surveys the history of physics all the way from how the size of the earth was determined to the atomic bomb to the basic working of the atom. The author does this is such compelling language and with such ease that it's hard to remember this is a physics book.  The book has the best explanation of the simple theory of relativity of any work I've read.  I can say without reservation that this book is the finest of its kind for the layperson.
5 How could scientists in antiquity determine the radius of the Sun? First, Eratosthenes determined the radius of the Earth by measuring the angle of a shadow and the distance between two locations. Then using reasoning and observation, once we know the radius of the Earth we can find the radius of the Moon, once we know the radius of the Moon we can find the distance to the Moon, once we know the distance to the Moon we can find the distance to the Sun, and once we know the distance to the Sun we can find the radius of the Sun. Each discovery is used as a toe hold to get to the next discovery, and this is a motif of the book.Singh compares the criteria scientists used to decide between the Ptolemaic (Earth centred) and the Keplerian (Sun centred) models of the solar system. The Ptolemaic system makes sense if the nature of the universe for everything to orbit the Earth, and it could explain the apparent motion of the stars, the Sun, the planets and the Moon, but once Galileo discovered the moons of Jupiter it was apparent that not everything orbits the Earth. A second critical observation made by Galileo was of the phases of Venus. The two models made starkly different predictions for how Venus would appear from the Earth, and Galileo's observations were consistent with the Sun centred solar system. The big critical experiment in this book is the observation of cosmic microwave background (CMB) radiation by George Smoot, which decided between the big bang model and the steady state model.Galilean relativity is the principle that if you are moving at constant velocity then you cannot tell what that velocity is without referring to an external reference frame, e.g., if you are in a box moving at some velocity, there is no experiment you can do inside the box to tell you what that velocity is, the only way to tell is to open the box and to look out. Singh explains how Einstein deduced as a consequence of Galilean relativity that light does not move in an ether. (Special relativity is about things moving at constant velocity, and general relativity is about things whose velocity can change, i.e. accelerated things.)To measure the distance to stars we use the fact that the apparent brightness of a star is proportional to the inverse square of the distance between the observer and the star. If all stars had the same intrinsic brightness, once we knew the distance to one star we could figure out the distance to any other star. Friedrich Wilhelm Bessel was the first to measure the distance to another star: using stellar parallax he determined the distance to 61 Cygni. But stars don't have the same intrinsic brightness, and the next step in finding distances to stars was made by Henrietta Leavitt with Cepheid variable stars. Brightness is proportional to the period of a Cepheid, and if we know the distance to one we then know the distance to the other.Finding the velocities of stars was also fundamental for arriving at the big bang theory. William Huggins applied the Doppler effect to measure the radial velocity of stars. In 1868 William and Margaret Huggins found a Doppler shift in Sirius; this is called a red shift because the light had longer wavelength than normal light, so it was shifted to the red end of the spectrum. Vesto Slipher found that most galaxies were red shifted instead of blue shifted. This led to Hubble's law that the speed of a galaxy is proportional to its distance from us.The next topic that comes up is atomic physics, which Singh explains well. Ralph Alpher showed how the big bang explained the abundance of helium that we observe in the universe, which is too much to have been produced in stars. Alpher and Herman found that there would be light from the big bang that was released at the end of the plasma epoch, and that this light would have a wavelength of 1mm, in the microwave spectrum. This light is the cosmic microwave background radiation that was observed by Arno Penzi and Robert Wilson in 1965.
4 Simon Singh is a very good writter, with the talent of explaining things in a very clear way. I recomended it to my sons.
4 "The Big Bang" is, as you can see from other reviews, a brief history of the theory of the Big Bang genesis of the universe. Singh takes us through the material in his usual skillful style: foundations, some science and reasoning, personalities, arguments, counter arguments, and proof of the theory. not bad at all, and it's very much like the book "fermat's enigma" in its style and presentation.my complaints with this book are that it's cursory (which is expected), it omits huge swaths of material (including the past ten years or so), and it's a bit simplistic (which it has to be for a broad audience). not that i was expecting an authoritative source of material, but as a scientist i guess i was hoping for a few extra pages here and there. for instance the story of how humans have understood the structure of the atom is lacking, and the history of black holes is completely absent.if you like this kind of writing and the history of science and discoveries, i suggest you check out "The Discoverers" by Daniel J. Boorstin  and "Coming of Age in the Milky Way"  by Timothy Ferris. both of these are written with the same amount of accessibility and both are written as a compelling tale, but each covers a bit more material. still, i think singh's accomplishment here is pretty good. i think it's fair to say that any college educated person should be able to read this book and understand it. he covers a lot of material in a clear and comprehensible way, and i think it's well presented.
5 This is a very well written book which takes you from the early discovery of the solar system through modern arguments for/against the big bang. It contain enough details to keep it interesting. A nice book.
5 The "readability" is great.  This book is very well written, and explains complex ideas in easy to understand ways.  5 out of 5.
5 The sub title on my book reads, "The most important scientific discovery of all time and why you need to know about it." I'm in full agreement, because it explains scientifically, the evidence we have for a beginning or, "creation" of the universe.Singh lays it all out void of God or any "intelligently designed" implications but you can read it for yourself and come to your own conclusions. To steal a quote from Hawkins everything about the Big Bang, "Smacks of God," because it defies any random event. The laws of physics, the inflation rate, the force of gravity, the strong and weak nuclear force, the cooling and subsequent nucleosynthesis to form hydrogen, it's all so fascinating, I had goose bumps while I was learning some of this.You can read the other reviews, everyone seems to be in agreement. This book is understandable, and clearly delivered. He certainly has the gift to get down to any one's level of intelligence and communicate how it is we came to the discovery of the Big Bang. What helped him in this ability is his recent "turning on" to this subject. He literally educated himself from scratch, reading astronomy books and talking to cosmologists before he put pen to paper. Then with a writing enthusiasm that keeps you entertained and focused he spills out this brilliant 500 page book, that is highly readable and interesting the whole way through.There is a wonderful glossary explaining scientific terms at the back of the book. He also has 24 quotes from different scientists from different periods of history, giving their definition of, "What is science?" May I share one?"The sciences do not try to explain, they hardly even try to interpret, they mainly make models. By a model is meant a mathematical construct which, with the addition of certain verbal interpretations, describes observed phenomena. The justification of such a mathematical construct is solely that it is expected to work." John Von Neumann [1903-57] Hungarian born mathematicianOccam's razor;"A rule of thumb stating that in the presence of alternative adequate explanations for a phenomenon, the simpler one is more likely to be correct."
4 Simon Singh is one of my favourite authors when it comes to popular science. I've enjoyed his books a lot, his style is both entertaining and educational at the same time. Big Bang is no different. By focusing his story on the colourful characters instead of equations, Singh makes the book easy to approach.There's one thing to notice: the book is less about the Big Bang itself and more about the theory of Big Bang. Singh starts from the ancient Greek, describing how the whole concept of science was born and developed. Much of the book is devoted to the argument between Big Bang and steady-state universe theories. After reading this book, the reader will be familiar with the scientific process and the evolution of scientific paradigms.Another success for Singh, and I'm definitely looking forward to whatever he's doing next. (Review based on the Finnish translation.)
5 I really loved this book. My 1 complaint, if I had to have one, is that it was moreso the history of the Big Bang than the science behind it. The first 100 pages take us back thousands of years to how they calculated the distance to the moon and the sun. Finally we get to Galileo and the invention of the telescope. Literally, after 400-some pages you just get to the 1960s when those two guys accidentally discovered the CMB.It was a page turner. Some of the graphs were too intense for me. But you can just keep on reading. Out of 500 pages maybe 30 slow down and get boring. But mostly, because the book details the lives of these great minds, it remains so interesting throughout the entire book.It would be great if they abolished the standard way of teaching high school astronomy. And just replaced it with this book! Discussing some of the basic math, but mostly bringing everyone up to speed on how we know what we know today.
5 Simon Singh is an adept popular science writer.  His first significant book was Fermat's Enigma which was an entertaining and informative chronicle of the solution to Fermat's Last Theorem.  Then there was the Code Book which provided a nice history of cryptography.  Now, in Big Bang, Singh deals with one of the biggest questions of them all:  how did the universe begin?Actually, for astronomy junkies - those who've read books like Brian Greene's The Elegant Universe or Hawkings's Brief History of Time - Big Bang is probably a little tame and won't offer much new insight.  Singh's audience is the general reader, one who may understand what the Big Bang is but not how the concept was arrived at.Singh starts with the ancient Greeks and the origins of science.  Soon enough, we read of Copernicus and his revolutionary idea that the Earth was not the center of the universe.  Through Galileo, Kepler, Newton and others, the design of the universe kept changing, sometimes radically (geocentric to heliocentric) and sometimes more subtly (circular orbits to elliptical ones).  Then things began to move beyond the solar system to look at the Milky Way:  did it contain all the stars in the universe or were there other galaxies as well?  The determination that there were many galaxies and that they seemed to mostly receding from each other led to a somewhat startling idea:  if the galaxies are moving away from each other, they must have been closer in the past and at some point, they were all in one place.The Big Bang theory would have its fair share of opposition, most notably from Fred Hoyle; ironically, it was Hoyle who wound up coming up with the term "Big Bang."  The icing on the theoretical cake, however, would come with the discovery of the Cosmic Microwave Background, an actual remnant from the Big Bang.While superficially a book about the Big Bang, what Singh actually is writing about is how scientific thought develops, how new ideas arise from old.  The Big Bang, like evolution, quantum theory or many other concepts, was not just a wild idea unsupported by facts; instead, it is the end result of a series of logical conclusions.  In an era when scientific thought is often questioned (look at topics like global warming or evolution), Big Bang shows that - while not perfect - science is often the most reasonable source for answers about the fundamental nature of both the universe and ourselves.
5 After developing an addiction for popular science by reading Fermat's Last Theorem, I got hold of his Big Bang. This time I didn't borrow it from the library, rather I bought it for my personal collection of nice books.The book takes a modest start by describing the earlier notions held by the ancient people of Greece, Perisa and Egypt about the nature and origin of the universe. After setting the stage for a keen discussion on the subjects of cosmology and astronomy, the author lands his readers right in to the lives and works of middle and post-middle age scientists.Simon Singh has a remarkable storytelling talent. The manner in which he narrates the history and development of any scientific enterprise keeps the reader spellbound till the last page, and for several subsequent days. The story is never less attractive than any bestselling thriller. Actually, the plot moves so swiftly while hopping over people and evolution of ideas that before the reader gets a chance to contemplate over any particular idea, he/she is roller-coasted to the next. Yet at the same time the fine details about the crucial concepts are not compromised. Everything is explained in an extremely lucid manner. And the biographies of the people involved make the whole narrative all the more interesting.Big bang describes the works of notable scientists like Albert Einstein, Johannes Kepler, Copernicus, Galileo, Tycho Brahe and Ptolemy etc. The list goes on. It discusses the times and circumstances in which these people lived. The hardships they had to suffer. The theories which they challenged or developed. Their confrontation with the bureaucracy and the popularly held beliefs. And consequently how the various theories about the existence of universe evolved. The book is also interesting as it educates its reader not only about the nature of cosmology, but also about the intricate interplay between science with other realms of human existence, such as religion.Johannes KeplerI can never forget having read this book for another reason too. I read this book while in various European cities. These include, Limerick, Vienna, Salzburg and Graz. I particularly remember that while I was reading about Johannes Kepler and his work, I was sitting in a garden in Graz. And when I finished reading the chapter concerning him, I noticed that there stood a statue of him in front of me. Similarly, I remember that read about the steady state model and its comparison with the big bang model on a hilltop in Graz on which I had gotten to through a lift. There were many people around me but I was practically oblivious about their existence. I read about the CMB (cosmic microwave background) on my way back to Limerick in a bus. These vivid memories are unforgettable and romantic.Big bang is a must read for every student of science. Once you will read it, you will fall in love with cosmology. And you would also want to live the rest of your life as a cosmologist or an astronomer.
5 I put off reading this book for a while because I looked at the contents and did not feel like reading about the triumphs of the Ancient Greeks, Copernicus, Galileo, Kepler, Newton, Einstein and company for what felt like the umpteenth time. That said, I picked it up a few days ago at the bookstore, genuinely wanting to get a better understanding of why the big bang is true, and have been unduly impressed...Singh does a terrific job relaying the science without sacrificing too much. There is not much math, but the little math that is present is very straight forward. The diagrams are superb both in their imagery and in their words. For the first time I feel like I can really appreciate why the ancients believed that the Sun revolved around the Earth from a scientific perspective. It actually provided better planetary predictions with the Ptolemaic model at the time. Singh uses a table that he revisits several times that looks at about ten different factors comparing the Earth and Sun-centered models.Also, I am learning new things that I did not fully grasp before. Like how we can figure out the diameter of the moon, and the sun, after simply getting that of the Earth and using a little geometry (you need a mind and a stick). I had never heard of a particular Einstein thought experiment before: one when he imagined himself moving at the speed of light with a mirror (it appeared to violate the Galilean principle of relativity.) Also, I now understand how the theory of relativity supplanted Newtonian Mechanics, not just the why.From my perspective, Singh presents the history of astronomy better than I have read from anyone else. It's very clear, cuts to the point, and relates some very entertaining quotes, stories and experiments throughout. It would be a fabulous place to start for novices. Non-specialists with a background in this area will likely enjoy the way that he puts it all together. He's got a great vocabulary ("blinkered"), understands how the progress of science works, and adds fresh insight to most of the historical discussion along with the latest evidence that has been left out of some earlier works.UPDATE: I finished everything but the epilogue. Wow. I had read about the big bang before and thought, "That makes sense." With this book, I really feel like I understand why we accept the truth of the big bang. Singh continues to unwrap the story of the big bang as it was unwrapped by the scientists discovery after discovery. If someone asks me in the future why we believe the big bang is true, I can honestly tell them  (the red shifts of galaxies, the variation of elements, the microwave cosmic background radiation, the observed differences in that radiation). Like in most cases of major scientific theories, it's not just one thing, but a series of observations that have shown the theory to ring true. The contrast with the Steady State theory throughout is especially insightful. One of the best non-fiction books I have ever read.If you want to know if the big bang is really true, or why the scientific community contends that it is true, this is the book. It's such an important theory that it doesn't make sense not to read it. (Final confirmation did not come until 1992.)
4 I absolutely loved reading this book. The author manages to fuel and satisfy the reader's curiosity about the universe and its mysteries. A delightful page turner...A couple of negatives: 1) The formatting is not good enough on an iPad. Some of the figures were split across pages. 2) I wanted a better epilogue with a slightly deeper discussion of Hawking's work, black holes and string theory. I hope a future version will satisfy this.I am an admirer Simon Singh's writing.
5 Science shouldn't be dull, it should be stimulating. Singh is even better than the late Isaac Asimov at making it stimulating.I thought to myself, "Here I am reading about the history of astronomy and it is as compelling as reading a page-turning thriller.Science writers: please learn from this author.Readers: Make this book number one on your list.Ralph Hermansen 9/7/06
5 I saw his lecture on C-SPAN and sought out the book to read at my leisure given that I haven't found a video of the C-SPAN lecture.  Interestingly, while the video was playing on C-SPAN my daughter came to me and expressed some anxiety about an upcoming algebra test.  She watched this video and some who or other her anxiety was assuaged and she came home the next day and reported that she had done well on the test.  Maybe it's magic, maybe it's just taking the mystery out of numbers and relationships that worked - it worked.  The book is not really for me a page turner.  I have found myself picking out chapters triggered by something I would've heard on NPR in the morning or during the drive home in the afternoon.  It's good to hear it from the horse's mouth. . .so to speak.
5 Simon Singh has written a brilliant book on a very complex subject.To be able to do so in simple terms is a wonderful gift.If you have an interest in following the history of mankind's exploration of earth,space,the sun,the stars the nebulae etc and the scientific thought that accompanied this journey this is a fabulous book.
4 What is the origin of the universe? What does the nighttime sky say about the manner in which this universe has evolved? How have astronomers sought to learn the answer to these and other fundamental questions? "Big Bang: The Origins of the Universe," by physicist turned journalist Simon Singh, seeks to provide answers to these questions. It is a broad, useful overview that serves well as an introductory text for neophytes and students, but it will be disappointing to scholars of all stripes. For example, its title may mislead too many readers. Anyone seeking a cosmological discussion of the origins and evolution of the universe--and there are many very good books on this subject and a broad audience reading them--they will be disappointed with Singh's work. Instead of cosmology of the type offered by such popular science writers as James S. Trefil, John Gribbin, Brian Greene, or Paul Davies, this is a history--and a singularly linear one at that--of how the theory of the Big Bang emerged in the science community in the early part of the twentieth century and eventually came to be accepted as the standard method of explaining the origins of the universe.After two introductory chapters that lay out a generalized version of cosmology from the ancients to the beginning of the twentieth century and a discussion of Einstein and his place in astrophysics Singh relates how the notion of a Big Bang gained a foothold in the scientific discipline. He emphasizes how hotly disputed this prospect was at first, suggesting as it does that all of the matter of the universe might have been rolled into a infinitesimally small point that exploded with such force that matter moved outward, setting in motion the forces that create stars, galaxies, planets, and eventually life. Offered first by the Belgian priest and scientist, Georges Lemaitre, this concept of an explosive beginning to the universe found few adherents because of a dearth of supporting evidence. For many scientists, such a "creation" also smacked of religious ideology. The observations of Edwin Hubble on the expanding universe in the 1920s provided some of the first undisputable evidence that something violent had taken place at some point in the history of the universe.Over time, as scientific data mounted, the Big Bang gradually gained support in key scientific communities and eventually became the standard explanation of how the universe has evolved. Most of this change came in the heady years following World War II when new technologies offered startling new scientific understandings. Among the most important of these capabilities involved the radio telescope and advances in spectroscopy, employed by a myriad of researchers to collect data about the universe, to explore the chemistry of stars. They discovered that the uneven distribution of galaxies in the universe called into question other modes of explanation. Arno Penzias and Robert Wilson proved to be the critical scientists in collecting and interpreting this data, finding that background radiation existed in the cosmos and gaining the Nobel Prize in 1978 for this discovery. Others followed. NASA's COBE satellite in the early 1990s discovered background radiation of varying densities clumped in various parts of the universe that could have fostered the formation of galaxies. NASA scientist John Mather received the Nobel Prize in 2006 for his path breaking work with COBE. Others dated the origins of the universe to 13.7 billion years ago, with a margin of error of +/- 200 million years.A central actor in this story was the eminent British astronomer Fred Hoyle, who coined the term "Big Bang" as a derisive label for the theory. Hoyle became the theory's most vocal and obvious critic, and offered an alternative theory labeled the "Steady State" universe that sought to counteract the "Big Bang" model. Central to his theory was a timeless universe in which matter was continuously being created and annihilated. For more than two decades his theory garnered the lion's share of support from cosmologists, but over time the weight of countervailing evidence swung against the "Steady State" model.Hoyle refused to give up on his theory despite mounting evidence supporting the "Big Bang," however, and Singh makes much of his intransigence. One of Singh's major conclusions is explained thus: "Death is an essential element in the progress of science, since it takes care of conservative scientists of a previous generation reluctant to let go of an old, fallacious theory and embrace a new and accurate one" (p. 75). In Singh's estimation, Hoyle and his theory died together. This is an unfortunate conclusion on many levels. While there are always diehard advocates of any theory, scientific or other, in most instances scientists are persuaded by compelling evidence and that is what happened in the case of the "Big Bang." The process of scientific advancement is much more complex than waiting for the advocates of an alternative explanation to die off. It involves alteration of models over time to take into account new data and understandings. It may, but does not always, involve the overthrow of a dominant paradigm after the facts no longer support it as Thomas S. Kuhn famously analyzed in "The Structure of Scientific Revolutions" (University of Chicago Press, 1962). There are also many instances of how scientists were more open-minded than Hoyle. For one, Harold Urey abandoned his model for the capture theory to explain the origins of the Moon when evidence went against him during the Apollo era, as historian of science Stephen G. Brush noted in "Fruitful Encounters: The Origin of the Solar System and of the Moon from Chamberlin to Apollo" (Cambridge University Press, 1996). Singh's facile explanation is both less illuminating than the complex processes of scientific discovery and incorporation of it into the body of knowledge. He does a disservice to scientists and their scientific pursuits with such easy explanations.While "Big Bang: The Origins of the Universe" is an entertaining and sometimes enlightening work, it could have been so much more. A sophisticated history of how scientists formulated, evolved, and adopted the "Big Bang" model of the universe is a noble endeavor deserving of serious scholarly attention. We have the beginnings of it in Singh's book, but historians of science have yet to tackle this important subject in their research. Potentially, the history of how the Big Bang gained primacy as a scientific explanation of the universe's origins could be a study as significant of the replacement of the Ptolemaic with the Copernican model of the solar system as explained by Kuhn. I await such a path-breaking study.
5 Simon Singh&#8217;s Big Bang [2004] is a clear and useful introductory explanation of the scientific quest for discovering and understanding the organization, size, and origin of the universe. The book is directed at the general reader and does not presume much if any prior acquaintance with the topic.
5 I bought this book because I enjoyed the Code Book by the same author... and am very happy I did.  This is a great set of stories about the many discoveries, ideas and theories it took for us to reach our understanding of our universe.  It starts with the very early theories about the earth and continues on to where we are today.  Highly recommended.
5 This book is written for people like me, with a curiosity for the science and history of the cosmos, who went to a crummy school that skimped on science.  I learned a lot of new concepts, it touched on things I already knew and expanded my understanding of said subjects, and also, it makes a mighty fine omelette. It uses two kinds of cheese!
5 I LOVE this book! Never have I started a review like this, but boy do I love this book. I read a LOT of books and this one had me gripped from the first page and kept me engrossed and stimulated the whole way through. Singh manages to explain complex ideas and theories in such a way that they are rendered clear and coherent and allow you to understand the difficult themes surrounding cosmology and the big bang theory. This book starts by looking at Copernicus, Galileo, Newton etc and showing how their ideas lead to modern cosmology research and development, it explores the development of telescopes and other measuring apparatus (more interesting than it sounds!) and how discoveries were made about galaxies millions of km's away from earth. It looks at opposing theories and the controversies surrounding them and how each theory gained ground and was either disproved or confirmed. This book is littered with anecdotes and humorous asides that add to the enjoyment of reading, as well as increasing your understanding. You also get a real feel for the excitement of discovery and of the various protagonists of the various theories and debates. At the end of each chapter you get a wonderfully illustrated and condensed summary that allows you to solidify the knowledge gained before going on to the next chapter, as well as allowing you to go back to this book and refreshing your memory. It has loads of clear tables and illustrations to explain particular points and various photos to compliment the text. Rarely have I enjoyed a book as much as this in the past few years and i've loved the sense of wonder and trains of thought it has lead me on. I could gush about this book for ages (as you may be able to tell!) but needless to say it comes HIGHLY recommended indeed.Dedicated to Stephen A. Haines whose reviews inspired me to read some amazing science books and who will be greatly missed.Feel free to check out my blog which can be found on my profile page.
5 Big Bang is a very comprehensive summary of Physical Sciences, leading to Astronomy and eventually to Cosmology. This is by far the best book from Simon Singh. A well articulated story starting from Ancient Greeks to the modern Nobel prize winners.  He describes in detail the Greeks assumptions of a round and spinning earth. And their measurements of Earth's circumference (Eratosthenes), relative sizes of moon and earth (Anaxagoras), and the distance to Sun (Aristarchus).Moving to the middle ages, the story of Tyco Brahe who took observational astronomy to an entirely new level of accuracy. Tyco's experimental data was interpreted correctly by Kepler who was myopic and suffered multiple visions from birth. Experiments of Galileo with pendulum, falling bodies, his observation of planets with the newly invented telescope and his ultimate friction with the Church. He mentions how Galileo could uniquely maintain religious beliefs and scientific dogmas in his mind at the same time, without any conflicts.On how Newton stood on the shoulders of the Giants and built on the planetary model to explain Gravity. William Herschel used telescope to discover the distant planets and their satellites. He came up with a rough size of the Milky Way Galaxy. His son John started recording the celestial pictures on newly invented medium-photography. With this technique, Astronomy entered a new phase.Beyond the Renaissance, how Einstein comes up with his thought experiments leading to theories of relativity (Special and General). For the first time I could understand that Special theory of relativity applied to bodies moving at constant speeds while General theory applied to accelerating or decelerating bodies. Time dilation and length contraction occur in fast moving bodies. How his theories lead to Alexander Friedman's prediction of an evolving Universe. How George Lemaitre's concluded that General theory of relativity implied a moment of creation, and hence Big Bang. And Einstein ended up denouncing both of them and came up with a Cosmological constant, which proves to be the biggest blunder of his life. George Lemaitre is a Belgian monk, who like Galielo, had a good balance between Science and Religion. Letting neither interfere with the other, but at the same time being deeply involved with both.John Goodricke discovered that the Cepheid stars have variable brightness. Because, unlike our Sun, they are not in a state of equilibrium. They go thru cycles of contraction and expansion. Henrietta Leavitt found a relationship between the period of fluctuation and apparent brightness by collecting data from a group of Cepheids in the Magellanic cloud. A team of astronomers found the distance to one Cepheid. Henrietta's theory was used to calculate distances of other Cepheids. Hale's efforts to build bigger and bigger telescopes. Edwin Hubble's greatest contribution by using these telescopes to prove that Andromeda is a separate Galaxy and that the Universe is undoubtedly expanding. Hubble's law vindicated George Lemaitre and Alexander Friedman.Ralph Alpher and George Gamow predicted that in the early Universe, after the Big Bang, matter existed as plasma, which cooled to 3000 degree centigrade and condensed to atoms, as the cosmic fog lifted, and Cosmic background radiation was emitted in all directions. This red shifted light in the microwave region was discovered by Penzias and Wilson of AT&T.; Fred Hoyle, in spite of his adherence to the loosing Steady State theory, made a significant contribution to the explanation of the nucleosynthesis of heavy elements from dying stars.Final chapters on the COBE's (Cosmic Background Explorer) precise measurements of Cosmic background radiation and subtle temperature differences in radiation of early Universe, leading to creation of Stars and Galaxies. This was the climatic moment for the Big Bang theory.This book is a must read for anyone interested in Cosmology.
5 This is a FIRST: I am writing a review of a book I am 1/2 finished. However: this is a wonderful book, well-written, informative and instructive. I would call myself a 'serious reader', in that book selection matters. This is the most enjoyable book I have read since Bill Simmon's 'The Book of Basketball.'
5 Writing for laypersons can't be easy: no formulas, simple diagrams, not too much math.  Singh carries it off beautifully.In addition, Singh is literate, compelling, historically accurate, and he knows or knew many of the figures in the 20th Century's most interesting theoretical and practical major question.Other writers say the book was "disappointing" and "dated."  True, 1993 was the publishing date.  This book, however, is not out-of-date.  As for being "disappointing," one can only wonder what the reviewer was expecting in a book for laypersons.If you can read this review, you can understand this book.  Go for it.  This should be required reading in high school and college.
5 While I am fascinated by the process of science and how science arrives at theories based on observation, I am also leery about reading books written by scientists. Their knowledge of the area is usually so great that they are unable to reduce the complexity of the subject to that suitable for mere mortals. But Simon Singh with a PhD in particle physics is not one of them.  I noted that he had been a producer for the BBC so I felt that there was a chance that he could tell an understandable story. And I was right. This was one of the best science non-fiction books I've read in a long time. Singh walks us through the chronology of the development of the theory, starting with the earliest physicist/astronomers. He gives examples of objections to the Big Bang theory and then shows how the data supports the theory. One of the objections to the theory was that if the theory were true, then there should be background microwave radiation. And he proceeds to tell the story of how this radiation was finally found. Singh also discusses some of the personalities involved in the development from or fight against the theory. All-in-all this was a very worthwhile read, far superior in interest and anecdotes than books like The Elegant Universe or the Physics of the Buffyverse.
5 Though I'm not much of a writer, I think I have a decent eye for good writing.  In addition to the wealth of knowledge in this book, this ranks among the most fluid and pleasing writing I've ever read--and not just in the technical realm.  If Mr. Singh is this gifted intellectually AND he has this incredible gift of writing, well, that's just not fair!  It was a pleasure reading this book.  I thought is was a wonderful overview of the big bang theory and the mysteries of the origin of the universe.  It was also nice to read an author who does not have a vendetta against those who believe a higher power is a possibility, an avenue I believe we should leave open when we take into account the enigma of the birth of the universe and the quantum world.  Great, great book!
5 "Big Bang" is a very informative book which not only elucidates the history of the Big Bang theory, but begins by documenting the history of cosmology in general from many different civilizations, from Pythagoras to Hubble.Every aspect of the Big Bang theory is discussed from redshift to elemental synthesis, and it is all explained is simple English (well as simple as nuclear physics can get anyway!). The history of modern cosmology is also well documented, discussing Hubble, Hoyle and Lemaitre, to mention just a few. An immense amount of research has been done by Singh for this book, and for this reason I regard it as a vital source for anyone who has a love for science and/or the history of science and cosmology.An extremely enjoyable read! Highly recommended!
5 This is an excellent book, which is heavy on the history of cosmology. It is a good read especially if the subject is of interest to you. I have not really studied cosmology since my days as a full time physics student, but the work would be easy to read even if I had not studied physics.Enjoy.
5 Akin to the Edison/Tesla fued over DC vs AC current for power distribution, this book describes in detail the two biggest waring factions in cosmology - Steady State theorists vs Big Bang theorists.  Singh presents all the researchers and their discoveries over the ages that have led the majority of scientists and cosmologists to accept that the Big Bang happened.This is one of the best books I have read -  I can't wait to read it again.It is a treatise on a large portion of the field of cosmology - from Galileo, Copernicus, and Koepler thru modern researchers such as Carl Sagan and Stephen Hawkings.  You will not be disappointed with this book.
4 The author presents us with a history of the smartest scientists of thwe world and science breakthru's that could lead back to reasons how the world started. This book is a technical description of how the world started. There is an interesting discussion of the fact that some people believe that Gos started the world and allowed the big bang to happen and we still have to show how that God sanctioned trigger occurred.
4 Singh remains faithful to his engrossing style of explaining science by narrating the stories of those who made it. In this book, He describes the history and evolution of our understanding of the universe by introducing the key human figures who contributed to this noble quest. This book is certainly the most reachable account of cosmology I have encountered to date.Chapter 1 follows the progress of Astronomy from ancient Greece until the door steps of the 20th century. It explores the various competing models that have been proposed to describe the universe. Some of the heroes encoutered here are Ptolemy, Copernicus, Kepler and Galileo. Chapter 2 is mostly concerned with Einstein's general theory or Relativity and its implications on out understanding of the universe. It also introduces the notions of the Big bang and the steady state universe. Chapter 3 discusses the great debate between supporters of the Big Bang Model and the Steady state Model of the universe. It also explores the efforts of cosmologists to measure distances to stars and some of the ingenious techniques they utilized. The bulk of the chapter is concerned with the ground breaking discoveries of Edwin Hubble. Chapter 4 describes how the few remaining obstacles facing the Big Bang model were finally leveled. The Epilogue discusses some of the problems still facing our understanding of the universe and speculates over such questions as "What came before the Big Bang?".I gave this book four out of five because (1) Very little if any mention is made of more recent advances in our vision of the big bang. (2) Some of hottest topics that certainly deserved a place in the bulk of the book are only mentioned in passing in the epilogue. (3) It gets a bit too superficial at times, (4) It lacks almost any coverage of quantum physics or string theory which have been so instrumental to our understanding of the universe.BOTTOM LINE: Readers with little or no prior knowledge of cosmology will love this book. Those with even a mediocre background will not get much out of it.
5 Remarkable depth and coverage on the types of human and personal sacrifices that people made from shipbuilding to railroad tracks to give the Western world the tremendous advantages it has enjoyed over the last 150 years.Being a capitalist, this was an eye opener. Abraham Lincoln during Civil War penned the Railroad Act and Panama Canal was funded by the US Govt. Without the Govt vision to seed the market in these areas (plus Hoover Dam that it talks about) free markets would have never taken the chances needed to make US a major economic powerhouse.Regardless of your view on Government policies, reading where we came from always gives a good perspective as you chart out where the country is going to go
3 DREAMS OF IRON AND STEEL is a serving of History Lite.  It is the written form of a BBC television series, subtitled "Seven Wonders of the Nineteenth Century".  The subtitle is symptomatic of what is wrong with the book.  In order to come up with seven wonders, Deborah Cadbury has stretched the nineteenth centruy to 1931 when Boulder Dam was begun.  Her focus on one or two individuals who designed or constructed each of the wonders is probably dictated by the exigencies of television, rather than her adherence to the "great man" theory of history.  Cadbury has the good taste, at least, to idolize the engineers and superintendent of the US intercontinental railroad instead of the crooked financiers who backed the project, as the late Stephen Ambrose did.The British wonders are more interesting to an American reader because they are not so well known here.  Cadbury's gaffs in setting the historical scene in Victorian Britain are less obvious to the reader in this country than the American ones. Example:  "Nothern plans to abolish slavery had prompted seven southern states to break away and form the Confederate States of America."  That statement wouldn't even pass muster in a high school essay on the causes of the Civil War.Cadbury writes well, if a trifle overdramatically.  That too may be traceable to the book's parentage.  She appends a large "Bibliography and Sources" section at the end for readers seeking more substantial fare.
4 Of the seven wonders that Deborah Cadbury describes, five (The Great Eastern, Brooklyn Bridge, Bell Rock Lighthouse, London Sewers and the first Transcontinental Railroad were all built in the 1800s. But the Panama Canal (originally started by the French in the 1880s) wasn't finish until 1914 and the Hoover Dam in 1936.Those complaints aside, each of the vignettes (or large blurbs) is in itself a fine story.  She does a fine job in not only laying out the plans for each structure, but the history behind the need for the structure.  Without belaying the point she discusses the dangers involved in the construction and the terrible tolls (over 20,000 in Panama from disease) that each structure took on the workers and owners.Think of the book as an expanded 'Wikipedia' listing and you'll get an idea of what each section is like.  Unlike an encyclopedia listing there are more personal opinions voiced, many of them are from interviews with people who worked on the construction of the 'wonders'.  Good Read.Zeb Kantrowitz
5 A very well written book that covers what the author has chosen to be subtitled  ?The Seven Wonders of the Industrial World.? The basis of this book is that, worldwide the knowledge and the production of iron and steel had reached the point where certain engineering visionaries dared to start considering the material?s properties to build on a grander scale than traditional wood and stone would allow.  In little more than the span of a century these diverse engineering projects set a new world standard in their respective fields, and it became the basis for catapulting Western civilization into the modern era of undertaking grand projects. Deborah Cadbury, the author has a very nice writing style. The subject is easily understood, and there is no math.  The author evidently did a large amount of research, she includes a bit of background material, but keeps the subject relevant to the central theme. The author does not delve into the engineering details of the problems, but generally strives to give the reader an overall view of the main problems encountered, usually a collection of engineering, financial and political obstacles.As with most books explaining engineering techniques, a few more diagrams would have been helpful. One consistent pattern throughout many of the projects is that the Engineer/Visionary generally were obsessive control freaks when it came to their projects, and as their project came to life it manifested itself as exacting an equal toll on their health.  The title is a little misleading, three of the projects, London Sewers, Bell rock Lighthouse, and the Hoover Dam deal mainly with stone or concrete.  The subtitle would be better suited to be the title of this book.  This reader highly recommends this enjoyable book
5 Engineering can at times be less than interesting, yet it was not always so. During the middle of the 19th century, materials and automated power made new endeavors that were once far-fetched dreams, bright new possibilities. Deborah Cadbury skillfully holds the reader enthralled during the tale of each endeavor, laying out the politics, players, economics, and natural obstacles that confronted the dreamer engineers who sought to make the world more civilized and safe for their fellow human. The one aspect of each engineer that struck me above all, was simply the nearly masochistic work ethic each of them displayed in their attempts to accomplish their dream.All but three of these engineering marvels are notable because of the large impact they had on civilization at large, not simply within the geographic area in which they were manifest.The three exceptions are monuments to overcoming fantastic environmental challenges to save lives and safeguard property that serve as examples of excellence and durability to this day.Another aspect of these marvels that presented itself unexpectedly, was the assistance from, or directly to the medical profession from at least three of these projects. It is actually somewhat frustrating to think how many lives could have been saved if only someone had listened to the medical professionals at an earlier point in these specific endeavors.To summarize, the subject matter is relayed in an entertaining fashion, with due consideration to detailing the people and their motives within the scope of each project, yet without compromising a suitable measure of objectivity. There are more detailed books regarding each project, but I believe &quot;Dreams of Iron and Steel&quot; manages an admirable compromise between informative detail and skillful story telling to merit five stars for excellence and motivational inspiration to succeed.
5 A wonderful and original account, with several small flaws.  First the Hoover dam wasn?t completed until 1936, hardly making it fair to combine with the other feats.  It would have been better to add the Suez canal or Moscow Metro in its place.  Perhaps the building and designing of Brasilia would have been acceptable as well.  Nevertheless this is a fun action packed account of many extraordinary accomplishments.  An enjoyable read.Seth J. Frantzman
5 I picked this book up on a whim, but I'm glad I did.  The 'history' is presented in a light and easy-to-read way that makes this book fun.  The stories of the individual "wonders" are presented as stand-alone chapters, so you can start with whichever one suits your fancy.The book reminds us that history is really about people, not machines or structures. But the people who created those machines and structures tend to be fascinating. The ones detailed in this book were (almost without exception) highly-driven, obsessively focused individuals with lofty dreams they would nearly die to achieve.... and in some cases more-or-less did go that far.If there's a downside to this book it's that the chronology of some of the events is occasionally hard to follow.  The author seems to jump ahead to near the end of a project, then back the beginning.  This isn't a deal breaker and once you get a handle on her style it's really not something that takes away from the fabulous (and true!) tales she tells.On the 'worth noting' front is an extensive bibliography and a really interesting section called "P.S. Insights, Interviews and More..."  You get a sort of behind-the-scenes look at the author and a bit of what went into the creation of the book.  I would love to see more books include sections like this.All-in-all a great read and highly recommended.
5 Ms Cadbury is a wonderful writer.  Her prose is clean and clear.  I had read the McCullough books on the Panama Canal and theBrooklyn Bridge, and this gave me a basis to appreciate what a fine job she did on condensing these two topics.So many history books are about politics or war, which I find boring, but the history of people actually doing something to make life better makes a great read.I bought her Terrible Lizards, and I am looking forward to it.
5 If you haven't discovered Deborah Cadbury yet then she is one of the best and sharpest writers around. Her text is spare, her research impeccable, and her ability to draw out threads without resorting to tabloid sensationalism makes for satisfying reading. In this, her third book, Cadbury covers the seven wonders of the industrial world, putting the feats, their makers, and the events into context of the time and what they have meant in history.This is the GREAT industrial revolution. The 7 wonders are The Great Eastern (the largest boat of its time a double hulled steel boat by Brunel), The Bell Rock Lighthouse, the Brooklyn Bridge, The London Sewers, The Transcontinental Railroad, The Panama Canal and the Hoover Dam.What I love about Cadbury is that she has not only picked 7 extremely diverse items, (dams, lighthouses, sewers, railroads, bridges, canals, and boats) but she manages to put them into the context of the history of that particular engineering feat, but also in context to the events of their own time.Her research takes her right into the buidling as well - for instance with the building of the Great Eastern she talks about the need for large numbers of young boys who were employed inside the boat, working in appalling hot and cramped conditions and juggling white hot rivets. There were dreadful accidents but a steady supply of labour meant that new workers were never a problem. The sheer volume of workers however never even made it into the day book though, they were never considered important enough.She relates this sheer volume of workers back to all these structures. They were all built through the enormous supply of labour available.This does not denigrate the sheer feats of engineering which these men needed to create these structures. No one thought the Great Eastern would be able to sail. The London Sewers were built in competition with the Underground in London, The Transcontinental Railroad needed to have all the items shipped around by sea via the Cape to get to the WEstern Side of America. As an aside I would really recommend reading Laura INgalls Wilder's book on the Banks of Silver Lake, if you are interested in the Transcontinental as Wilder's father worked for a time on the Railroad and she describes the working day in excellent detail including how they 'flattened' out the prairies by hand.I cannot emphasise enough how great the detail is in the book - for instance, the work on the Brooklyn Bridge laying the foundations lays bare the horrendous circumstances in which men worked, in 80 degree heat at the bottom of the river. Explosions at the edge of the caissons often resulted in blow outs of compressed air which would send a 'fury of debris and water" in a column as much as 500 feet in the air.I saw the television series on this book but was very disappointed. It was reenactments and it just didn't bring the depth of detail which is in this book.This is one of the best reads this year. I would strongly recommend it to anyone. Deborah Cadbury's books are excellent and she is on my must buy list.
5 In seven spellbinding chapters, this gifted author recounts the stories of seven of the most outstanding technological accomplishments of modern times (most of these behemoths were built in the nineteenth century). Most histories of these structures, i.e., how they were longed-for, conceived, planned and ultimately built, could likely keep any interested reader mesmerized; but the author's outstandingly riveting prose makes depositing this book almost impossible, keeping the reader breathless. The writing style is clear, friendly, authoritative, immensely accessible and above all, as already stated, absolutely gripping. This is a book that can be enjoyed by anyone who loves intense drama, high adventure, devastating tragedy and, ultimately, brilliant long-lasting success (well, long-lasting for six out of the seven cases).
4 I bought this book because I thought the format and subject nature were most suitable for a long plane ride back to Japan: Seven Chapters on the engineering marvels of the modern world. Each different with its own challenges and particular history. The changing subject nature would keep me interested during the flight -- I was not dissapointed.The storytelling here is first rate with a good introduction to the historical challenges and necessity of each project -- setting the story in its place as it were. Cadbury then spins anecdotes choosing what she wants and no doubt leaving out a lot of interesting and germane stuff... but it doesn't matter... the purpose of the book is to outline these great projects and, if one wants to, point one in the direction for more material related to such things as Brunel's "Great Eastern" or the Brooklyn Bridge, Hoover Dam or the Panama Canal.The book has no pretensions to be a serious exposition of any of the projects. It is a good historical tale of each one of them with enough drama and description of the engineering difficulties and personalities to keep one's interest.Serious Engineers may be expecting more... if so, you will need to look elsewhere. There are no sheer force equations, analysis of holding strength or geographic analysis of strata. But if there were I probably would not have bought this book.It also fills a vital role in filling in some of our knowledge in these little known challenges that shaped our world so much... I hope I make as wise a choice of books for the next flight.
5 It includes many useful information about the greenery and gives some tips for the ones that does not have a "real garden" but a small balcony as well!
5 My husband has enjoyed this book very much. He is already planning his witchy garden for next season.
4 My parents recently moved into a house on a small plot of land, a bit of a garden in front and some in back. What I wanted to find, and am still looking for, is a book to help me magically protect the house and its dwellers by using plants and plant magic, as well as to boost prosperity, blessings, hapiness and health of people living on the land. Although this book covers garden as sacred space and theme gardening (elemental garden, medicinal, seasonal garden), as well as plants for magic and lunar gardening, it does not help with my primary gardening objective.
4 if you are looking for basic info on what to grow and how to use it, this is a good source. has lots of various topics that will entertain and get you think. Now get your cauldron ready...
5 While it does include helpful growing advice it isn't a how to book on gardening.  Which is good because the focus is on the beautiful rituals which make up a good portion of the content.  Besides those for growing healthy plants and dedicating your garden as sacred space, the author has included very special ones for the Sabbats that really highlight the connection of nature and Wicca. I thought the one for Mabon was particularly good in the way she ties all the elements as well as the God and Goddess into the tending of the garden.Because of the rituals, ideas for laying out gardens in witchy styles and the fairly extensive list of plant correspondences this book goes into my top ten list of most often referred to books.
5 Real Witches. Real power. That is the premise of Kate West's new book, The Real Witches' Garden. In this book, like the others in the Real Witches' series Ms. West delves deeply into all the ways to bring your practice into focus using a garden. She states that since we are following a nature-based religion, we might as well do our rituals in nature. Makes sense to me.Now, you apartment dwellers don't go skipping over this book. There are gardens for the very large area as well as for the non-existent outdoor space. Something for everyone, no matter the size of your space or property. And you might even grow that green thumb you never knew you had.In 12 easy to digest chapters, we learn how to make and celebrate gardens of all sorts. We are taught about planning for things like pets and children. There are gardens with a focus on the Lady and Lord, the Elements, the Seasons, magic or healing.Each chapter contains numerous rituals to plant and celebrate in the garden's focus. Gizmos and doodads are kept to a minimum, so costs are not a big deterrent in achieving one with the great outdoors.While I enjoyed this book and found it interesting, the writing style took some getting used to, probably because the author is from the UK. This is an excellent book for a beginner either to the Craft or to gardening. Especially useful are the lists of correspondences in the book, as well as the chapter entitled "Take it from here" that lists further reading and resources.I was also pleased with the appendix explaining what witchcraft really is. It included brief paragraphs on our beliefs, something that is usually overlooked in many witchcraft books. All in all this is nice, handy book to add to your spiritual library.W. Lyon Martin Author/Illustrator of "An Ordinary Girl, A Magical Child"
2 I, like many others, bought this book partly due to the hype surrounding it. I was very let down. Although the author captures the breadth of what can be hidden in the average housewife's heart and mind, she tried too hard to be shocking and "taboo", thereby discounting the truths that were touched upon. Having a husband who is a robot in bed naturally leads to... cab driver orgies? Note to the "bride": Freedom and self expression do not die when you get married unless you let them. Also, investing in a vibrator would have been a wise first move before jumping head on into the whole virgin/sex slave dynamic.
3 Like a lot of the other reviewers, I was pretty intrigued by the hype surrounding this book and thought it held a lot of potential. While it was certaintly an easy enough read (I actually read it in one sitting in one of those random arm chairs in Barnes and Noble, and I'm glad I didn't break down and buy it), and skirted around some interesting, provocative, and important themes and issues, it just fell short somehow in the end and failed to raise the questions it so desperately screamed to present. I'm not by any means an easily offended person and can handle graphic content, but in this case, the explicit scenes were not convincing enough to carry any real heft and came across as trying too hard rather than offering anything truly original or thought provoking. The course of the story felt kind of stale and predictable, despite all the attempts to shock, and I agree with other reviewers that the mystery surrounding the dissapearance of the bride seemed kinda pointless. And honestly, by the time I reached the end, I didn't really care what her final fate was. It wasn't that I didn't like the character, it was just, the story hadn't grabbed me enough to really make me interested in what happened to her. I also found the titlar character to be more a series of cliches than a three dimensional person (like all the characters in the book), and although she had some promising observations here and there and there was some decent writing sprinkled throughout the nowhere bound story, The Bride never really came alive in such a way as to make her real or, frankly, interesting. Overall, I was dissapointed by how much the mark was missed.....I couldn't shake the feeling that there was a worthwhile story in there somewhere. Oh, yeah, there is, and it's been told before in far more effective manner (Fear of Flying, The Awakening, Madame Bovary, Lady Chatterly's Lover, and the list goes on and on)
4 A gem, for any of you folks who haven't seen it on the Target shelves yet: Nikki Gemell's  The Bride Stripped Bare.Written in Lessons instead of chapters, the novel begins with, "Your husband doesn't know you're writing this. It's quite easy to write it under his nose. Just as easy, perhaps, as sleeping with other people. But no one will ever know who you are, or what you've done, for you've always been seen as the good wife." From there, Gemmell takes us on a journey through a woman's erotic and frightening self-discovery. The narrator moves from boring housewife to experimental secret-keeper upon the discovery of an Elizabethan manuscript that describes women's secret desires. Intrigued that another woman so far removed had felt the same urges and longings, the narrator careens through testing the limits of marriage, dragging the reader through the rabbit hole with her into a world where a bored, naive housewife quickly learns to weave lies and deceit to manipulate those around her.Fans of poetry, you're in luck - the rich imagery and gorgeous use of language melts on your mental tongue as you read, and though many of the sentences are short, they're rich - I have to admit a tendency to blow through books and then have to go back to read for digestion. This novel, however, had me gasping with exhaustion at the end of every few chapters - it's gut wrenching, in a subversive, disquieting way. The second person voice "you" this, "you" that - the narrative voice intimately involves the reader, turns the reader into a shadowy accomplice during the length of the book. Does each of us have the capacity to blur the boundaries between fantasy and reality, and are we willing to pay the price that comes with it?The way Gemmell captures what a woman thinks when she's got the semi-ideal life but dark yearnings makes this one a must-read for anyone interested in the workings of the mind of a woman. Note that the Amazon reviews I've seen so far have hated the book - but I do believe they came from the wrong perspective. I don't believe it is intended as a heartbreaking take of a good wife; the sex scenes were not meant to throw the book into the 'erotica' cache of reading, and it is not intended to be a novel addressing what EVERY woman wants, desires, and is willing to do - it's more about the boundaries one woman chooses to cross, and what it does to her as a person. Whether you like or dislike the narrator is almost immaterial - the journey is the thing.Caveat - sexually explicit, unapologetically erotic, and searing honesty characterize Gemmell's work in this one. While many women will report that they have had none of the darker wanderings of the mind that characterize the novel, from conversations with close friends and my own experiences, enough of us have to make this one a very worthwhile read. Highly recommended with maximum starrage - if you're not afraid to read a novel with a provocative cover that only hints at the turmoil and emotionally disturbing text, this one is a must-read. A must re-read. A must-share-with-my-best-friend-and-a-few-men-I-know read.Gemmell is now on my list, and I'll have to go grab her other work - The Bride Stripped Bare is beyond fantastic - it's disturbingly real. Let me know what you think of it!
1 absolutely hated this book, could not finish book, forced myself 3/4 of book then just gave up.  To choppy, I just did not like it period
5 I had never heard of the author Nikki Gemmell before I purchased "The Bride Stripped Bare", but I'm very glad I did. It's about a suburban housewife who feels stifled in her marriage and yearns for something more.  Sounds familiar and trite, but the book is not. In diary format it tells the story of her journey of self discovery of her sexual needs and desires and is beautifully, even lyrically, written. As I read I kept thinking, "Yes, this rings true, I recognize these feelings." There are graphic accounts of sexual pleasure, so be forewarned, but there are also sharp insights into intimate relationships. This book may be classified as erotica but it is literature, unlike the currently popular "steamy" novels. The book will probably appeal most to women, but any man reading it will get some insight as to what goes on in a woman's head.
3 The book was okay if I wanted to read someones diary. Or I wanted to re-live things I chose to forget about my own life. this one novel was just not for me. Sorry !
3 "The Bride Stripped Bare" is written as a diary by a wife who has mysteriously disappeared. She talks frankly about sex (think penthouse letters) and love. The book was initially published anonymously. Too bad it's not anymore--an anonymous author adds a whole new spin on a story like this--makes it more juicy-as if it's a true story.The diary format is an easy read. It's broken up into many bite size chapters. The prose surprised me. Though the author's second person POV is at first off-putting and annoying, it's easily ignorable after awhile. Despite the constant "yous," the characters are well flushed and thorough. And the main character/narrator is not too likeable--actually no characters are likeable--which of course makes it difficult to get into a book.For the most part, I found the story entirely believable, though where I think it loses people is about 1/2 way through-when the author/narrator kind of loses it--and goes porn star with random men.
5 The Bride Stripped Bare, by Nikki Gemmell, is a wonderful novel.  Gemmell has a rare, unique voice. It has a kind of sad mood to it and the ending is very unexpected.I loved it and I highly recommend it, I could hardly put it down until I had finished it.
4 -Erotica written from a different perspective .... It's written in the second person as  in "you", throughout and pretty soon you feel like all these naughty decisions are your own...be careful.
3 This was really an odd read. Didn't hate it, didn't love it but liked some of it.It consists of journal entries  (second person) linked to a lesson from a historical book? I can deal with that. The journal is anonymous so I assume that is why the main character has no name. On one hand that really bothers me but on the other hand you generally don't refer to yourself by name in your own journal entires.The letter from her mother...some say it shouldn't be there, that it is pointless. I think it's actually pivotal. At the same time it makes this book a huge cliffhanger for me. But a cliffhanger that isn't going to be answered and that SUCKS.The story itself is about a women that feel like she settled when she got married. She goes looking for what she is missing, ie greener grass. Her BFF Theo, who has the 'greener' life is actually jealous of hers. Is there an affair between Cole and Theo, who knows.I am not condoning what she did but I do like Gabriel and I think on the whole what she did to him was shitty.I don't think the book was overly graphic. Yes, she used some dirty words and talked about S E X and some dirty thing but come on...don't read it if you don't like that type of stuff. Let's face it, what goes on in our head is a lot different then what actually comes out our mouths. Hello, it's a journal....
3 Nikki Gemmell writes beautifully, and her Bride was someone I grew to like and sympathize with, even though I found it hard to identify with her (maybe because I belong to a later generation, which I think--and hope--is less repressed). I enjoyed most of the book, even when I questioned Bride's decision to stay in an unhappy marriage to a man who most likely cheated on her with her best friend.I won't spoil the ending for the people who haven't yet read the book, but I will say that I found it very unsatisfying. I wish Gemmell would have given us a clue as to what happens to Bride and what made her take that choice.
3 Original format for a confessional coming of age for a married woman of child bearing age.  She's the good little wife in the eyes of her friends and community but she invites the reader into her personal, private world.  A world where she begins an affair with a spanish virgin man of her age.  She imagines herself to be the teacher to Gabriel, showing him what a woman wants from a lover, and in turn discovering the answers for herself, for the first time climaxing sexually.Like "The Story of O" and "9 and a Half Weeks", both written anonymously about a woman's journey into raw sexuality, I found myself questioning why the authors had to remain unknown.  Are we not yet of an age where such truths are acceptable to have a name?  Why must we remain anonymous if we dare to speak such truths?The ending was nice, much like the reality of a woman's life.  She has a baby and such thoughts of depravation are gone and we slide into our virgin mother love roles, distancing ourselves from our whore, mother nature having the last laugh.Easily readable in 2 page entries.  An honest tale.
3 A very different book. It took me awhile to warm to it Enjoyed being entertained by it. Probably would not bother reading her next book
1 This is the WORST book I have ever read.  It could have gone so many wonderful ways, but it just kept getting worse and worse.Anyone who thinks this is a "heartbreaking tale of a good wife" needs to seriously seek some help.This book is NO insight into a real respectful or intelligent woman.  This book is however insight to a woman who becomes a manipulating, lying, control freak.I threw it away- a first ever for me.
4 This was an intense read.  What do you want?  What do you think you want?  How are you going to get what you need?  I liked it, but I didn't like the fact that I could relate to the story in so many respects.  If you're ready to shine a bright light on the darker side of your personality, then by all means, read this.  Don't be surprised if you're left feeling very raw and exposed.
2 This is actually a book written by Nikki Gemmell, but in the UK version, she chose to publish it anonymously so that she would be free to write it without the constraints of her being a mother, wife and daughter getting in the way.  Perhaps because this is basically erotica wrapped inside a story of a woman dealing with her marriage, her husband's probable betrayal with her best friend, and her impending motherhood.  The main character takes a a good-looking virgin lover in his 30's and then begins to find herself.  What is good about this book is the main storyline of the main character's relationship with her husband (Cole), her best friend (Theo), her lover (Gabriel) and her son (Jack).  Some of what Gemmell writes is so true and personal that it's heartbreaking and beautiful at the same time.  What I think destroys this novel is the premise of this manuscript being found by the author's mother and the heavy erotica.  It just seemed out of place and at most times very unnecessary and distracting from what could be a solid literary piece of fiction.  It's just a shame that the awaking of a woman's sexuality had to become so base and poorly written when it is obvious that the author has such a talent for writing female feelings and relationships so well.
1 This book, with it's similar style cover to Fifty Shades of Grey, is an autobiographical account of a woman's sex life. That's it. She has sex in front of other men, in back alleys, group sex. You name it, she's done it. There was nothing erotic or sexy about this - just seedy.
5 This novel intrigues from the first couple chapters and never lets up. I loved this book for its honesty and it's mysteriousness. You feel as though you know too much, but somehow not enough. This is an important work for a woman experiencing her own sexual/personal awakening - I'd also recommend Edna Pontellier's "The Awakening" - although this work is a more modern, explicit version. Can't wait for the sequel to Bride Stripped Bare!
5 This is a non-traditional book. It's a journal; thus, expect intimacy, honesty, and at times crude thoughts written by the character. This is not a book about happy endings or love forever after...in my opinion, is just a glimpse in the life of a woman in search of herself.This book has become one of my favorites and I often find myself reading a random journal entry.
4 A fascinating, thought provoking and raw book that takes a look at one woman yet i think probably represents many women in the modern world.This is a quasi-diary of a woman who questions herself and her sexuality, wondering why it is that for her sex is more about pleasing her partner than gaining any physical pleasure herself, and if she can change this. She embarks on an affair that changes her life profoundly, not only in that it opens her up to thinking about sexual pleasure in a new way, but thinking about life and how she is living it.This book reminded me a lot of Josephine Hart's 'Damage'. Like that book 'The Bride Stripped Bare' is an exercise in dry, stripped prose used to describe something full and sensual. Also like 'Damage' i found that this is one of the few pieces of erotica in the English language that actually works because it is well written and explores the motivations of the characters, rather than just getting into the physicality of the act. When the author finally comes to write about the central characters sex with her lover, it is all the more powerful and arousing for knowing how this fits into her life and mental landscape.And like any great book, it leaves you asking questions of yourself after you have finished reading.
3 This book was rather a surprise to me.  It is very erotic and somewhat psychotic.  It's an okay read, but nothing I find outstanding.
1 I did dislike this book. I found the scenarios in the story depressing and predictable. I actually couldn't see the point in reading it and I would not recommend it to others.
5 Raw.  Painfully honest.  Unflinching.  Unbearably beautiful.  I devoured The Bride Stripped Bare by Nikki Gemmell in one day.Since this is my first foray into erotic fiction, I had very little idea of what to expect.  Lots of "sexy sex" I imagined.  But  The Bride Stripped Bare absolutely floored me from the very beginning.  Sexual descriptions aside, which were not cover to cover as I had preconceived, The Bride Stripped Bare had every element I desire in any novel:Literary writing of high caliber - The Bride Stripped Bare is written in a very tricky, unusual second person point of view, present tense.  As a reader I'm so used to the first person device which instantly places me in the main character's mind; however, this perspective achieved the same but in a more immediate, intimate way.  By the constant "you," I actually felt that I inhabited the nameless character:  The "good wife"/"good daughter"/"good friend" who, after learning a devastating secret, embarks upon sexual discovery which she chronicles in her diary."You have a book given to you by your grandfather that's a delicious catalog of unseemly thoughts."That a wife should take another man if her husband is disappointing in the sack."That a woman's badness is better than a man's goodness."That women are more valiant than men."That Adam was more sinful than Eve.It was written anonymously in 1603.  It's scarcely bigger than the palm of your hand.  The paper is made of rag, not wood pulp, and the pages crackle with brittleness as they're turned.  You love that sound, it's like the first lickings of a flame taking hold...It smells of confinement and secret things."My copy of The Bride Stripped Bare is stuffed with bookmarks because I found so many remarkable passages ranging from visceral, to stunning, provocative, or just simply profound.Profundity because it's not merely about sex or sexual acts but comments truthfully, without romanticism, about love, betrayal, friendship, transgression, marriage, parental relationships, even motherhood.  Every woman who reads this will gasp, not so much with surprise, but with repeated affirmation.  Gemmell wrote what women secretly feel, what they tell themselves, what they hide and what they desire."An emptiness rules at its core, a rottenness, a silence when one of you retires to bed without saying goodnight, when you eat together without conversation, when the phone's passed wordlessly to the other.  An emptiness when every night you lie in the double bed, restlessly awake, astounded at how closely hate can nudge against love, can wind around it sinuously like a cat.  An emptiness when you realize that the loneliest you've ever been is within a marriage, as a wife."Despite the fact that the nameless main character embodies the experiences and emotions of most women, and the other characters could stand in for archetypes: the typical husband, the close friend, the mother - all have rich, detailed specificity to them.  They have complexity and nuance which ring true.The plot has a recognizable trajectory, chronicling love from its honeymoon stage, to comfortable couplehood, then its disillusionment, and resurrection, again mirroring what most couples go through.  Within this framework, the nameless character loses and finds herself - until the final scene in which the reader is left pondering what really happened.  Did she?  Didn't she?  It's literally a cliffhanger and that's all I will say about that.And now to the good part.  The sex is good, yo.  As I read The Bride Stripped Bare I found myself saying "Oh my god."  "What?"  "Oh"  out loud.  As I stated above, the novel isn't sex from cover to cover.  It progresses from chaste "down there" to bolder, more explicit, then right out climactic aria of erotic fantasies.  Some of it is authentically mundane.  Some repulsive and shocking.  Some educational.  All of it is riveting.I'll leave you to discover the graphic passages for yourself.  For now this:"What you love:"The arch of the foot, its bones, rake-splayed.  Wide, blunt, clean fingernails.  Michelangelo wrists.  Cleanliness.  The nape of your neck nuzzled.  Your eyelids kissed.  Burrowing deep under the blankets.  Clothes to be drawn off slowly in exquisite anticipation.  Cold, smooth walls you are rammed against.  The sound of a lover's breath close to your ear.  Your hair pulled back when he's inside.  Your name spoken aloud just before he comes.  Connecting, a holiness fluttering within you both.  Seduction that's slow, intriguing, unique, by flattery, extravagant gestures, text: poem scraps on napkins, filthy e-mails that should never be sent, love letters scrawled on Underground passes, a line composed in lipstick on your back as you sleep, written backward, to be read in the mirror; oh yes, all that."
5 The best second person narrative I have read, ever! This is languid and beautiful and biting, tragic and edge of your seat. I started the book and within the first chapter I was committed. The litany on loop in my head? "This can't end well." It is the story of a woman's search for herself. Discovering and then re-discovering identity in the face of and in reaction to other people's expectations. What is, perhaps, even more horrifying is her own complicity in the architecture of her life. She is as much to blame as anyone else. I loved that this was not an easy book. I loved that everyone was a villain and that everyone was a hero.It is hard and frightening and terribly real. I identified. It's extreme in places, but there is a truth in the prose. That somewhere out there, somewhere in the world, there is this woman. That all women carry fragments of her. She is you.
4 So I got a request for this book and was surprised. It turned out a lot better than I thought. Despite the ratings, this book has got a lot going on, and can easily be liked. It did have some irritating parts, but that didn't make me stop reading the book.So this book is second person. This book tells how every person has a secret. Well mostly women, but a guy has to have their own. So we have a recently married woman, who hear a convo about her and can't decide if she is angry or going to let them have it. She soon discovers a book by another woman of that time.So know what to do? Well how about we go look for a younger guy who will fulfill our desires just the way we want it. A student, a cute professional, or just pick at random. Either way we have a lot to choose from, and eventually pick one we think will be perfect and start to do what we have always wanted.This book took me no time to finish, not that it was a fast read, but the pace was just right and made you read it quicker than you think. It took only the first few chapters to get me hooked, but once you are, you will really get into the book and enjoy it all.I give the book 4 stars.
2 For my money, Jong'sFear of Flyingwhile definitely dated is still a more original and believable work than this one.My wife read this and thought I should read it.  Okay, I'd like some insights into this thing that is Woman, so I read it through.  And over and over what came through is what this woman really wanted was power and control, but mostly control.  I detected--no, that's not accurate--I wasn pounded over the head, incessantly, by the protagonist's seething anger at male domination which was so predictably, tritely, stereotypically present in this novel.I found the author's/narrator's view of marriage and commitment as twisted, dark, and fundamentally wrong.  The premise of the narrator was that of someone so incredibly vain and selfish that it infected and adulterated her view of what a relationship or a marriage should be:  collaborative on all issues and levels.  Her assumed and oversimplified point of departure for her relationship with her husband was subservience, surrender, and resignation to stagnation.  She chose this path for herself, accepted it, and then blamed her husband for the situation she had created in the first place.  While not the greatest gy in the world--acutally just an unimaginative product of his upbringing, apparently--the husband of course became the perfect, oppressive beast, which so handily facilitated the breakaway with the so very horribly trite love affair.Then the baby came and the horrible, soul-crushing, self-denying, immediate and undeniable bonds of service and sacrifice were no longer an issue for the narrator.  I read this carefully; the same things that made her despise her husband so intensely were the ones that made her love her baby so much.  At first I saw a major disconnect, but then it became clear.Ultimately, it all boiled down to control, control, and control.  She loathed the sharing of control with her husband, which she manufactured into his non-existent total control.  This gave her the contrived reason she needed to do what she did.  But the baby, that poor, helpless baby, elicited no control struggle--she was the only person in charge, making all decisions, not bound at all by the need to collaborate or consult with anyone else.  By the end of the book I was wondering what kind of mother she would turn out to be, and how exactly that little baby would grow up, develop and mature.  I feared more for the child than for the jilted husband, knowing the ugly struggles that lay ahead as that child grew, matured, and attempted to become an individual.Bottom line:  Get this and read it, but avoid paying for it if you can.  It will give you some insight into women and how they think, but hopefully not insight into every woman.
4 This really had me viewing my own marriage and life from the outside.  It gives you a more honest reflection of oneself that gives your the courage to take stock of where your own life is at, what got you there and what treasures have you collected along the way.  It is intensebut not to the point that you don't want to stop reading but you do to allow yourself time for your own self reflections.
3 This is a quick read. It's a novel about a woman obsessing on her sexuality in the context of her relationships with her husband, her best friend, her mother, and her lover. I found her unique voice compelling me along, e.g., "Darkness is greedy now, it crowds into the afternoons. The year is galloping toward Christmas." Short, clear sentences cover so much territory and get you thinking about life.
5 Been hearing about this controversial bestseller for a long time, and it was only fitting that my husband, who had no idea what this book was about, bought this for me on our civil wedding day. There is something taboo and "hush-hush" about a novel done anonymously and this alone gives any literary work an instant 'oomph' to it."For my husband. For every husband" is the dedication of this book.Take your super ordinary, super plain and content wife. The woman you would never give a second glance to as she walks down an aisle at the supermarket; the woman who has completely disappeared into being the "little wife". This book, told in the second person point of view (You being the protagonist), is about the awakening (sexual, mainly) of the ordinary wife in her mid 30's. She is the proper clean wife, and when her marriage hits a bump (husband and her bestfriend betrays her), she decides to start living her life selfishly, why not.Selfishly meant putting her own indulgences ahead, writing an erotic novel under her husband's nose and succumbing to dark thoughts that she never thought she'd be capable of. She forms an affair, a student-teacher relationship with that of a Spanish-English virgin. And for once, she is the ringleader of the bed.Her young lover soon becomes obsessed with her, and she puts the trysts to a stop.Her relationship with her husband revs up again, with the help of her newfound sexuality and soon they conceive a child, and she tries to live her life on the normal mode again, content on having, for now, the stint with her young lover, as the most sensational chapter in her life.A very simple plot, but boldy, very honestly and admiringly told. One should take all the time in the world to read this book, because, apart from the feminist plot, the story is written very beautifully. The protagonist was unamed purposely, so that every woman can distinguish herself and relate to the story. I originally thought that the author, Nikki Gemmel, wanted the book to be written anonymously only to gain the mystique factor. The book has an exclusive interview with the author and she explained very well, that she Had to finish the novel knowing her name will not come up, because anonymity will release her from inhibitions and reluctance of writing a novel that may be described as vulgar and literary pornography. She dared to describe, in graceful detail, what I believe, every woman has thought of, but had no audacity to declare out loud--to her husband, friend, etc.After reading this book, it has sunk into me that no matter how liberated and opinionated women are of today, we are still not in the man-woman equal stage. A novel such as this is becomes controversial because 'bad impure thoughts' from a woman (girlfriend, mother, wife, grandmother), are still considered to be shocking.  A man who thinks of sex 24 hours a day is considered human but once a woman confesses to that, its not exactly a sin, but it comes off as "unusual, but yeah, these things happen". It will still take us several more years before man and woman will be totally equal.Anyway, to sum up the book, a statement from Good Reading cannot say it any better: "Husbands will be left feeling distinctly nervous" (if any husband reads this at all).
4 I was expecting a titillating, naughty read but got so much more. Most immediately brings to mind 'Looking for Mr. Goodbar' in its devastating depiction of a woman seeking fulfillment through sexual exploration. By the end I was sad, angry and totally enraptured by this haunting story. Look beyond the surface of the 'smut' and you will find so much more.
3 Normally I would summarize the book and then move onto my feelings. But this book stirred up so many feelings--it's quite the emotional roller coaster--that I have to skip right ahead. I cared about the main character and her struggles to feel loved and satisfied, but then she would always take it just a bit too far and I was frustrated. She became her own worst enemy, striving for some kind of impossible ideal.But I was eagerly flipping the pages, wanting to know what happened--dying to know if she was going to figure it out. That, perhaps, is where I became the most frustrated because the ending came too quickly and without much resolution. Of course, the reader knows the unsatisfying ending from page one. Still, I hoped for something against the odds.I read this book as part of a bigger blog tour where I will read two more books by this author. Although I was often torn about this book, the writing was engaging and compelling. I was emotionally invested in this character, even when I wanted to smack her. And sometimes life simply doesn't have an answer for someone's pain and dissatisfaction. I just wish it did.Note: I received a complimentary copy for review purposes. A positive review was not requested or guaranteed; the opinions expressed are my own.
4 totally different to what I expected, raw emotion.'stripped bare' is a great way to express her feelings,  who would have expected the ending  at the beginning of the story
3 I gave the book 3 stars because although I like Nikki Gemmell's writing style, I found the story sordid at times and was upset by the main character's deception of her husband, even though the author tries to make it understandable. The ending seemed sudden, out of character and in final analysis unsatisfactory. I preferred the other book I have read by Gemmell &#34;With My Body&#34;. I would recommend the book to anyone who is fascinated by the revelation of the inner self and development of a woman
4 The book focuses on photosynthesis and it's relation to plant life, animal life, and the history of life and the climate. It is the only popular science book I know that focuses on the amazing and wonderful process of photosynthesis.The first section - Carbon, Energy, and Light - describes the discovery of various aspects of photosynthesis. This history, and the scientists involved are the focus. Consequently, there are interesting stories of various scientists, often competing with each other.The second section - Beginnings, Fossils, Forests and Feedback, Grass - looks at how plant life began, developed, and worked to allow animal life to develop. This section focuses on the science rather than the people, although contributors are noted.The third section -  Humanity, Energy - looks at the future: climate change and human activity that affects it. It is the shortest section, and doesn't look at these topics in depth. But this is understandable, as by the time we start this section, we have already read 314 pages of dense content.I really enjoyed this book, especially how it drew together the strands of plant and animal energetics. It develops long, and often subtle, strands of scientific fact and reasoning. However, in small parts the writing can be annoying: foot notes not fundamentally related to the topic, philosphical musing and "waxing poetically". A few parts I skipped because they didn't seem interesting to me (e.g., Priestly and the discovery of oxygen).Another reviewer condemned the book to a 2 star rating on the basis of one point in the context of a 450+ page book. I am not competent to judge his point, nor the overall scientific content of the book, but the book made sense to me, and to other reviewers including a professor of the history of science at Harvard, a director of a botantical garden, and well-respected The Independent (London). That leads me to believe that overall the accurancy of the book is not a problem.
5 I definitely agree with the earlier reviewer, who stated that he couldn't understand how anyone could give this book less than five stars!  This is by far the best book on photosynthesis (and its meaning, history and implications) that's available, and I should know since I have spent a lot of time searching for just such exquisite and detailed writing concerning this subject.Furthermore, I've bought multiple copies, because it is such a gem (both in terms of its writing style and its content).  There are so many incredibleideas and facts contained in this volume, that I find it hard to imagine just HOW the author researched and composed such a beautiful book.
4 The first 1/3rd of this book is an excellent history of photosynthesis. Morton walks us though the personalities, some of the key experiments and explains a little of the biochemistry as he goes. He has visited some of the pioneers who are still alive. It wasn't until after WW2, when radioactive isotopes and heavy isotopes became available, that details of the carbon fixing cycle of photosynthesis were decoded, and only in the last ten years has it been figured out how light energy is able to break apart the stable water molecule. Morton knows the biochemistry of photosynthesis well and nicely walks the line between being too detailed or too vague. This is difficult science writing and Morton is good at it.Photosynthesis is without question one of the most important biological processes in all of life. But it's also fun. One of the key molecular machines in photosynthesis is ATPsynthase. I have seen biologist often fail to mention how interesting this little beauty is. It is a rotating molecular machine, a real, high speed (few hundred rotations/sec) double, reversible rotating machine. One of only two rotating molecular machines known in all of life. It has a proton turbine on one end, located in a membrane channel, that is spun by protons diffusing across the membrane. On the other end is an ATP making machine that works by 'sqeezing' phosphate groups onto ADP. Morton describes this rotating machine on p87.If you want a good history of photosynthesis combined with a quick overview of both its light and dark reactions, this is the book.
5 Yes, it is true that science writers are not necessarily excellent scientists themselves, but who really expects them to be? Morton, as any science writer of quality, does a fine job of telling a technical story to inform the popular reading audience, but also to make the science interesting - interesting, to the point of whetting the appetite for more detailed study elsewhere. His story is photosynthesis, a topic that everyone knows a little about (carbon dioxide in, oxygen out, leaves are green), but few know just how fascinatingly intricate is the biochemistry and the biophysics. Does anyone recall that carbon dioxide does not get split to release oxygen, but rather to make the sugars and proteins in the plants?The biophysics part clearly is the jewel in "Eating the Sun." Morton's repeated demonstrations of light energy translating to chemical energy, and the marvelous variations here, will cause the reader to keep saying, "Oh, yeah!"  Because the author is a skilled writer and storyteller, the fabric of plant life / animal life gets explained well. He also does a decent job of describing the evolution of photosynthesis through the eons, including the changing biochemistry of life and the atmospheric compositions. Scientists he deems crucial to the discoveries on photosynthesis receive his good press.One could complain that the author's bias toward those various scientists could make a reader smile. He appears to like scientists who show modesty, display a bit of eccentricity, and express (or feign) interest in nonscientific activities (hiking, gardening, etc.). Since he also has a tepid confidence in free markets, these choices probably blend understandably. Still, it can be irritating to run across haughty statements to the effect that an occasional maverick [scientist] might stumble across a breaking discovery, even without being part of the "community." Just ignore him. The last section of "Eating the Sun" seems to be everyone's choice as the weakest. This part tends to wander, and the science is overly speculative. Fortunately this is the shortest part, and few writers are gifted (or lucky) enough to get future predictions correct anyway. The rest of the book is good enough to be well worth reading.
4 I did know that the oxygen liberated in photosynthesis came from water molecules.  I didn't know that the basic research in nuclear physics and nuclear chemistry merged with biochemistry to fill out the details.  The problem solvers were notably NOT biologists, and I say that not to demean the life sciences, but to emphasize that the tools they needed came from research done on a seemingly totally unrelated topic.  A cautionary tale for those opposed Government spending on research that doesn't seem to be relevant to them.Oliver Morton is very readable, weaving a story of discoveries and personality which I find attractive and helps to bring the chronology alive.  There is plenty to read here, but the time spent is worth it.
5 As a biochemistry major in grad.school and having done research w/ photosynthesis, the author has done his homework and has a "A" paper(book). The ONLY critique would be that the "next edition" needs to have more visuals aids to go with his step-by-step explanations.This would make an an A+ book.
5 popular science tends to be written by one of two types of people. scientists who have decided that telling the world about science is as important as working in their lab and writers, usually journalists from magazines that got interested in some aspect of science, wrote a longish piece and then thought enough to make it into a book. this author is the second type but he writes, especially the first 1/3 of the book, on chlorophyll like a passionate scientist. good stuff.the first part reminded me of _crystal fire,  another popular science book that approached the topic both historically and by making the people come alive as in a good novel, coupled with good science. neat trick, rarely done well, which makes my first reading recommendation any of the first 3 chapters, to decide if you want to pursue the whole thing. it's on the higher side of science, potentially a bit of a slough for some, stick with it, finish one chapter before you give up.the second 1/3 of the book is the level up from chlorophyll, the plants and how they interact with the environment. a lot less science, a lot more speculation and i must admit my enthusiasm waned a bit here. however i could see his big idea and really wanted to understand the whole thing. for this reason, if you decide to read the whole book, read it front to back, some of the meaning is in the relationships built up sequentially, which you'll miss jumping around as i often read.the last roughly 1/3 is about global warming plus. unfortunately somewhere here my attention continued to wane and reading became looking a words on paper and lost that absorption that was so present earlier. if the author releases another edition it would be nice to see if this could be rewritten to the same level as the first 3rd. what imho is lacking is that person story structure he uses so effectively in part 1. the structure is him walking and thinking about his place and though interesting not as convincing as the interplay of personalities before.it's a good book. important and timely topic, but best of all it is a good jumpoff point to recommend to get everyone up to speed on these crucial issues: mankind and our effects on our environment. i could see it as a textbook or reading group choice.note:fitting together as well as acorns and their shells or a couple spooning. he has a novelist's command of word pictures.
5 XXXXXQUESTION: Why should anyone want to pay homage to chloroplasts?ANSWER: Chloroplasts are the specialised structures in which photosynthesis takes place in, for example, plant cells.  In the type of photosynthesis that occurs in plants, carbon dioxide and water react in the presence of sunlight to produce life-producing and life-maintaining oxygen.Thus, this book looks into photosynthesis, one of the miracles of evolution.  The author of this book is Oliver Morton, an award-winning science journalist.  He is editor of the science publication "Nature."  (Morton also has an asteroid named after him.)This book is divided into three parts:Part 1: describes how scientists used the analytical tools of the 20TH century to discover the molecular machinery of photosynthesis.  (Note that some of the steps of photosynthesis are still not completely understood.)Part 2: tells how the molecules discovered in (part 1) came to dominate the Earth's chemistry, to reshape its atmosphere, and to drive changes in its climate and habitability.Part 3: tells what our use of fossil fuels is doing to the carbon cycle (the flow of carbon through the Earth system), and what this affected carbon cycle is doing to the climate.  It's also about how our understanding of photosynthesis might help us choose a wiser future.  (This is my favourite part.)The most scientifically technical parts of this book are concentrated towards the beginning.  Do you have to read these chapters to understand the rest of the book?  Answer: NO.  You can skip forward if you desire without losing the thread of the book.  There is a handy glossary to help with technical terms if you missed their explanations earlier.What begins as an essay on an under-appreciated part of the history of science turns into something much richer.  The result is wonder, intellectual excitement, clear explanations, lyrical writing, and a new insight into how the world works, linking the very small with the very large.In reading this book, you will encounter many disciplines such as:  history, history of science, physics, physiology, chemistry, biochemistry, and biology.Finally, there are seven diagrams in this book, all of them helpful.  I would have, though, liked to have seen more diagrams.In conclusion, this book reveals how life is made from light by detailing the most important process on the planet...photosynthesis.(first published 2008;  list of illustrations;  author's note;  introduction;  3 parts or 9 chapters;  main narrative 410 pages;  glossary;  bibliography;  further reading;  acknowledgements;  index)&lt;&lt;Stephen Pletko, London, Ontario, Canada>>XXXXX
2 Although the book gets a good deal of the science right - particularly the biochemical part, Morton's assertion (on p. 199 of the hardcover edition) that "...as Harold Urey pointed out in 1950s that when water and CO2 are both present..." [the resulting carbonic acid] "... turn(s) silicate rocks ... into carbonate rocks, a process known as chemical weathering." This assertion is flat wrong, and SO wrong as to destroy Morton's authority for me for the entirety of the book. He's obviously not up on his geochemistry, and no fact-checker came to his aid here.Carbonate rocks (limestone [sedimentary] and Marble [metamorphosed limestone] are formed by living organisms in the sea in which CO2 is dissolved and available for body-structure and shell-making. The cast off shells and corals of sealife find their way to sea bottoms over thousands of millennia and are compressed and cooked by the continuously delivered overlying sediments into limestones miles in depth.One does NOT get carbonate rocks out of the chemical weathering of silicates unless there's a "...then a miracle occurs... (the miracle of sea life and deposition)" clause in Urey's alledged assertion that Morton so blithely accepts and delivers.Otherwise, some of his writing is positively eloquent - poetic, even - as on the last two paragraphs on p. 141.
5 His books are just excellent, very different from many artist authors. Watching his DVD does help tremendously with the books, although not necessary.
5 This is an excellent book for all levels of water colourists.One can review the basics,learn some new techniques & approaches to developing a painting .The artist shows how to go from a photograph to a finished landscape.This was very informative.
5 Bellamy paints differently from American landscape painters.  Great simplifcation and subdued use of color. Interesting to try his palette.  Following his advice, I created some lovely pictures. Good information for the landscape painter.
2 I'm not impressed with this book, it's not for beginners, it dose'nt have enough instruction on "how to do" or "how this is achived" hardly anthing on brushes or paints. very dissopointed with this book.
5 I am a near beginner. Meaning I know the basic of paints and brushes but am not very good at painting.And this book helped me tremendously!!! I have tried 2 other books but this one simply "clicked"! My paintings have definitely improved and I would recommend this author. He takes you from simple monochrome paintings where he makes you focus on tones and washes, onto 2-3 color paintings where you are made to realize the importance of right contrasts ... and finally to full fledged paintings. I have not yet got to doing a "full" painting and am still at the 2-3 color paintings, but it has definitely helped me so far. And he makes you paint beautiful yet simple paintings even at the monochrome stage. And seeing such early results encouraged me to do more.I will certainly buy his books in future. Unfortunately Amazon has one 1 DVD from him! Goggle showed me the others can be bought paying in pounds!!!
3 The concept of high sensitivity as an extreme normal trait is one that certainly needs addressing. There were many aha! moments in this book as I read it, both for my son and myself. The descriptions of HSC and the challenges they may face are the strengths of this book. However, the book falls short when offering advice on how to help these children. First, I was put off by the author's dismissal of Occupational Therapy and Sensory Integration Therapy. She seems to believe that that it is a method of pathologizing the normal trait of high sensitivity. Sensitivity, like any other trait, exists on a continuum and, on the more extreme ends of that continuum, may interfere with a child's ability to function and be happy. An OT's services can be extremely helpful in this case, and the author should not dismiss them so quickly. Second, the author's repetition of "always put the child's needs first" resulted in advice that seemed out of balance and incomplete. Of course parents should consider a child's temperament when considering discipline, education, etc., and I would greatly appreciate a book that teaches me this. The more I read this book, however, the more I felt I was being told to create a highly controlled bubble environment for my child. It seems there should be a balance between accepting and celebrating a child's sensitivities and helping that child learn to not be overwhelmed by his or her sensitivities and function in the world. This book did not seem to strike that balance.
5 Bedtimes, transitions, going to school, and many other things have gotten easier for my child after following suggestions in this book.  This book is very reassuring and helpful.
5 I bought this book to try to understand my sensitive daughters even better.  One day at a time, because they are teenagers,
5 My daughter is 5-1/2 and cries more than her baby brother. She smells everything and complains almost non-stop about what I considered to be silly things. I was beginning to think there was something "wrong" with her! At a party, a friend, recognizing her own child in mine, recommended this book.My child and I were butting heads because I could not relate to her - at. all. This book has helped me to understand HER perspective on life. It has helped me be more patient with her. You can take the online quiz to determine if your child is HS and if they are, READ this book. It has literally been a relationship saver for us.
4 As a mother of a sensitive child it was nice to see a book out there that does not condemn this or tells you push, push, push. A lot of what she said made sense I just felt like she was really into her subject matter and perhaps was a little too wordy. The overall theme of listen, understand and validate was a good one.
5 The advice to &#34;not overdo holidays&#34; was really useful to me.  My daughter loves holidays, but starts to get cranky and fussy during celebrations.
5 Quite good in many areas.  After working with many of those children in the last 35 years, I feel that the author has given straightforward, timely, useful information.
4 This book really helped me understand my three year old son so much better.  He is very sensitive and can be easily overstimulated.  after trying everything to correct some of his emotional outbursts the way most other parents correct their child's behaviors such as using time outs, sensing him to his room, reprimanding him, ignoring his tantrums, etc I came to a point of hopelessness because none of it worked and I didn't understand why. My son is a much happier child now because I have read this book and understand how he works now.  He is just highly sensitive.  He needs more down time than other kids do and he likes to talk things out if he is having a hard time with something. He responds much better to reasoning it out rather than time outs and such.  In short I have learned a ton from this book and I highly recommend it to any parent who has a sensitive child.
5 A great companion to 'The Highly Sensitive Person'. Wonderful examples and ideas on understanding a highly sensitive child, or to help your child understand and celebrate their gift.
5 I was thrilled when I came across this book. As an extremely sensitive child myself, written inTesting the Waters (The Elements of Life series. A 'mystery and thriller' memoir of a lost teen and young adult.), I prove to be an example of what you would call "acting out" but a little more extreme. My mother always knew that I was sensitive, but she didn't know how to handle it, even though she tried very hard. This information not only helped me to better understand myself, but I will apply this book as I raise my own daughter, who is also a HSC. THANK YOU FOR WRITING THIS AMAZING BOOK!
5 I have a highly sensitive grandson, and this book was amazing in helping me understand him and his reactions to life. I certainly recommend this book to anyone who has a sensitive child in their family. We owe it to our children to understand them and to help them interact with this highly stimulating world we live in.
5 Since a big out of state move our daughter (who has always been highly sensitive) has had a lot of interesting &#34;problems&#34;. My husband and I had felt like our wonderful child was turning into someone she was not and we didn't know how to fix it. We kept trying new things and trying harder to correct her behavior. We are definitely on a journey but this book really put a lot of things in perspective and gave us a unique point of view for our unique girl. It has truly been an invaluable resource to all of us. I was thinking about checking this out from the library, but since the price is good I ended up purchasing. I am so glad I did! I refer to this book and have it marked up with my notes and it is truly been an added asset to our family. If you are looking into this book, do yourself and your child a favor by reading it.
5 I read this book a few years ago, and it still helps me. I find myself recommending it to friends on a regular basis.I was seeing a counsellor who suggested I go through the parenting section of a book store and find a good book to &#34;reparent&#34; myself. I found this one. The title really resonated with me. I'm so glad I bought it. It was the perfect book for my purpose, both because my parents weren't the greatest, and because I am highly sensitive. Soon after reading this book, I bought the adult version. I have to say, I found the adult book less helpful!I have also referred back to this book many times as a teacher, nanny, and now as a mom. It's paid for itself three times over. I highly recommend it to anyone who thinks they, their child, or any child in their care, or anyone in their life might be highly sensitive. The book provides the perfect amount of background and science to understand the sensitivity traits, and it also provides detailed, practical recommendations for helping sensitive people deal with common frustrations and problems.
5 Elaine Aron has provided a wonderful book to the parents and caregivers of highly sensitive children.  I came across this book in the midst of a rocky transition to preschool for my son.  I now feel confident that my frustration and sadness at his suffering can be replaced understanding and support.  I have always accepted and loved him deeply for the special person he is but understanding more about how he must feel and how to reassure him makes a world of difference.  I have not yet finished the book but already have no hesitation about giving it the highest recommendation.  One drawback, book lacks an index which would be nice for quick reference. / Addendum, since reading this book I have developed some additional concerns about my child - wondering if he might be Asperger's or the like.  We are in the process of an evaluation as I would like to assist him maneuvering in social settings if this is the case.  Regardless this book was helpful.  Am now reading "Quirky Kids: Understanding and helping your child who doesn't fit in -When to worry and When Not to Worry" which is a nice discussion of those issues.
5 Wow.  I am so happy to have found this book.  It has finally connected the dots for me.  My son has, since birth, been a highly sensitive person, bothered by noises, lights, changes in routine, etc.  But for some reason, I had never put them together as part of one temperament. Now I see that his terror at the sound of fireworks, his shielding his eyes from bright sunlight, his extreme discomfort at tags on his clothes or if his shoes are not on just right, his disliking of hats or anything coming near his head, his terror at the doctor or the hairdresser, reluctance to potty train (because it's a change in the routine!)...they're all related!  And this book affirms for me that the way I have been handling these things gently and with understanding, is far better for his temperament than punishing or even time-outs.  This books has been a revelation to me, and I am a MUCH better, more sympathetic parent for having read it.
2 I apologize if this review is long, but I am highly disappointed with this book. I read so many good reviews but this was not what I expected at all. Now, maybe I am just a more discriminating reader based on my experience, who knows. I was a psychology major in college and did quite a bit of research, I've been in the mental health system myself for years dealing with bipolar disorder. Because mental health related topics are so personal to me, they are a one of my main interests and I continue to do research in various capacities just in my free time for enjoyment (about all types of psychological/biological topics). I'm always looking for ways to expand my knowledge base. Now as far as this book, I didn't need a book to tell me I was a sensitive person, I already knew that and all that goes along with the experience of it just from being an introspective type person. I got this book because my kids, who are 5, are so much like me that it is uncanny, and I knew that they were indeed highly sensitive people. Since I already know what its like to live this way personally, I was more interested in getting information from a parent perspective, as well as getting some more scientifically based information on sensitivity and the heritability of temperamental traits. About 1/4 of the way into this book I just had to stop reading. I kept waiting for the author to say something of substance that actually made sense and wasn't some sort of personal anecdote. But it seemed like one long list of &#34;example&#34; after &#34;example&#34; of people she saw in therapy (apparently she is/was a counselor) as well as her own life. Its good to throw in some examples but it seems as if that is all this book is...a bunch of random examples that don't necessarily relate to each other or even paint a clear picture of what a sensitive child/person is. In addition I she seems to have an agenda at making &#34;high sensitivity&#34; seem normal. You can tell from reading this book she was criticized throughout life for being sensitive and so she now has a bone to pick with the world about how &#34;natural and normal&#34; it is. I disagree. It is vast minority, which is not to say that is bad, but you can't say it is &#34;average&#34; either. She claims to be an expert on sensitivity yet from my understanding her sole scientific research has consisted of self reporting from clients and questionnaires. There were no real unbiased studies done and no hard scientific data. It's a lot of conjecture. She says things like &#34;HSC's are probably this way because....&#34; &#34;It might be because....&#34; I'm not really interested in her theories on what &#34;might&#34; cause it. She doesn't take into account any other factors really (introversion/extroversion, which is a &#34;Big 5&#34; personality trait, family histories, environment, etc.) She wants to lump everything into &#34;Oh well that's just because they are sensitive.&#34; Well, that's just not true. People are a lot more complex than that!!!! On top of that, she waffles back and forth and gives no clear guidelines as to what she says a &#34;highly sensitive child&#34; really is, in her experience. &#34;They can be introverted or extroverted, thoughtful or rude, conscientious or bored&#34; etc. Well, that's pretty much a description of every child!!! Granted, I understand there are people out there who aren't sensitive people and who have no real idea how to relate to their children so maybe this information could be helpful in some way...but I am guessing there are many more sources of information that are better than this book at that. Don't expect this book to have any real scientific info in it...or like me you will be sorely disappointed.
5 This book was effective in helping me understand the common characteristics of high sensitivity, and gives information on children of all ages from infancy through adulthood. It seemed that about half the book was dedicated to understanding and identifying sensitivity issues, understanding your personality and your partner's, and realizing the role of the novelty-seeking trait, while the latter half was about parenting highly sensitive children. If you're familiar with concepts of Attachment Parenting, many of the concepts are similar and revolve around respecting the child's needs.My only lingering question, now that I've read the book, is how to determine whether and when you should pursue clinical evaluation. As a parent, it's natural to wonder when you're fully understanding the root of your child's behavior and uniqueness or whether something else could be going on. For example, some of the traits of a sensitive child can overlap with certain learning disabilities. Since this was my first introduction to the topic, I plan to keep reading.The Strong, Sensitive Boy, which the author recommends, will be my next read.
4 I highly recommend this for anyone who thinks he or she might be parenting an HSC.  A sensitive person myself, I somehow failed to recognize the little nuances in my child like aversion to noisy, busy environments and problems with clothing and shoes.  I also failed to interpret his fear of being scolded for what it was.Though I wouldn't say the book was profoundly influential in our lives, it certainly gave me a few light-bulb moments.  I now know to tread a little more softly in certain areas in our lives.
3 For someone who hasn't read a lot of parenting books, this might be a great book, but for the reader who has read a parenting book or two and just needs some specific tips, everything is over-explained and just too wordy. I found myself skimming and just reading the headlines, because it is so repetitive and explains everything as if you had become a parent yesterday. A decent editor could have cut down this book to half the size and packed in the same information.If you have a sensitive kid, the book still is very good and will give you a good sense of what things to watch out for and how to adjust your parenting style. If you read quickly then it won't be too much of a burden for you, either. To me it was very helpful with my sensitive child and my sensitive husband and sensitive sister. It gives you a new perspective and does let you know that you aren't alone with these problems.
4 This book had a lot of information and examples.  Of course, nothing is 100% and it doesn't replace speaking with professionals.  But it certainly helped give me a language for identifying things that come up for my children - whom I believe are sensitive -- and in any case, most children are sensitive and it helps to be more aware of what they might be feeling and thinking.  I wouldn't use the word "shy" anymore and I feel like the book helped give me more of a vocabulary and back up for being a "go-between" for my children with others who don't understand their reactions to certain things or how to speak with them when they have certain reactions.
5 This book has been such a blessing to our family! My son is very sensitive and having this book on hand has really helped me to understand what it means and how I can help him to be happy and successful, just the way he is.  Some seems to be a little over-written like she could have said the same thing in a lot shorter or simpler way but it is so good, I have already recommended it to many friends and they have liked it too.
5 I haven't even finished it yet...and I love it!  I'm in tears half the time reading about...wait for it...myself as a child.  One of my granddaughters is an HSC...at least one of them I should say.  I'm going to finish reading about myself, my sons and my granddaughters...and then ask my son and daughter in law to read it.  It's really easy reading, not jargon filled or boring.  There is joy in reading about a child who is HSC, discovering that they as perfect as they possibly could be and not difficult, shy, obstinate or whatever labels have already been applied.  It helps a parent also, in giving thoughtful responses to helpful busybodies, and helping the child to develop responses to those same types. The book explains so much, so easily and so beautifully....buy it and know you are doing a good thing for your highly sensitive self (let's face it...who else would question/be so concerned?) and your highly sensitive child/grandchildren!!
5 This is my go to reference book. I highly recommend it to series practionars. I love that it has a formulary in the back to make some of the things that are required.
5 This is not a grimoire of spells that you can do with items that you can find around the house or even at your favorite occult store.  What it is, is a fantastic resource of folk magick and traditions for when you're ready to start crafting your own spells.  I refer to it constantly when I need to know where to start on a particular spell.
5 This is not a hold - your - hand - how to. Ms. Illes clearly understands that not all practitioners set up alters, create sacred space, or cast circles, squares or other geometric shapes the same. This is just spells, some very old, all very interesting and very well researched. This appeals to those who have generational knowledge passed through our families. We find ourselves in these pages and are glad someone is sharing it.
5 If you enjoy spellwork that heavily utilizes herbs (even Hoodoo), this book is for you. For the price of all of the other spellbooks out there that only have 40 or so in them, you get a much better deal for your money when you buy this book. I know some people are offended by some of the content (some of the spells are "manipulative"), and I understand that. I do believe in karma and not doing any manipulative magick on anyone, so I steer away from those spells in the book. I do appreciate that Illes put them in the book to show that magick really is neither black or white; "it is both, because nature is both." The choice is there for those that wish to use them, but it is their choice alone. Back to the book itself...It may be a bit more expensive, but it is _definitely_ worth it. I bought mine almost a year ago, and still use it often today. It has a prominent spot in my witchy library, and I know you'll treasure it, too, when you buy it.
5 This book almost vibrates with the amazing collection of spells and magic it contains. It is an ultimate reference indeed, drawing from all cultures and magical systems possible to include several options for each catagory of spell. The way it is organized only adds to its usefullness- it is catagorized alphabetically, and makes for and easy flip to whatever type of assitance you feel you need in your workings. With a bonus introduction section that covers spellwork basics, to the formulary in the back describing the concoction of various classic brews, this book is a must-have for any active magical practitioner.
5 This has a lot more info than just spells, can't wait to dig into it after the holidays.  Mine, mine, mine!
5 I am picky about spellbooks so when I saw this one on the shelf I was sure that it had to be terrible.  A collection of 5,000 spells was just too much for me to believe that there was any real value to the book.  I was sure that at very least it would just list a bunch of spells with no real information about how to work with them.  I opened the book at random and came to the chapter on working with herbs.  I was very surprised to read a detailed account of creating herbal infusions that matched up with an herb class I had recently taken.  Upon further inspection I found that there was a plethora of supplemental information for nearly every section in the book.One great aspect of the book is the way the spells are organized.  Most (smaller) books will have a section labeled "Protection" and list a handful of spells on the topic most of which the reader will never (for various reasons) implement.  In this book under Justice spells it begins with the most accessible, least involved spells "(Burn brown and purple candles) and then steadily increases the level of involvement (here's an oil you can make to anoint those candles).  Many spells have a handful of various versions to try out.  The famed "beef tongue" justice spell has 8 different versions including one for vegetarians.There is a wonderful mix of traditional customs, vodoun, ancient formulas, herbal, candle, oil, sympathetic, entity summoning, and just about everything you can think of.  Now, obviously I would imagine that Ms. Illes has not personally cast all 5,000 of these spells but I got the impression that she had a nice level of familiarity with the material.And on a purely aesthetic level it feels very nice to pull a gigantic spellbook off the shelf and start flipping through its pages.  After owning this one for about a month I bought copies for each member of my coven.
5 This book is just that--a great resource. It has everything you can think of, including some nastier spells (this bothers me a little, but I am glad that they did not censor themselves, and there is also a warning in the beginning of the book about using magic). It has a good bit of history as well, with not only modern spells, but very old ones as well. This book has become a great resource for me when I create rituals.
4 While this book is quite interesting, the authors seem to confuse, potions, charms, incantations, spells and magical ceremonies quite frequently. Also the majority of 'spells' listed are quite outdated or obscure.
5 If you bought this book and paid for the pound you would get your money's worth!  An amazing about of work on folklore in it's most elemental form. Finally a serious work that is not full of the "play stuff".  This book is valuable for anyone wanting to learn, advance their level of their crafting or even get to the lore and roots of what they are doing.Amazing work especially great for paranormal writers.
3 lots of spells for lots of things but there very generic and not in good ritual formatt not the powerhouse id want in a spell book
5 Destined to be a classic. The Only Book on Spells You Will Ever Need.This Book is not a Book on "Wiccan Magick" , although Wiccans who are not fluff bunnies, and are more open mided to learning could use it, and benefit greatly from this Book.  It is a book on Folk Magic, from Brujeria, Santeria, Espiritismo, From Latin America, To Egypt, and other ancient cultures,  from around the world.  Many of these Earth-Magico Cultures do not believe in the concept of "Karma" so many of these Spells would be shunned by Wiccans.  With that said..  I Love this Book.  I hope the Author does a similar book on Magical Ceremonies and Rites and Passages.There are little books of spells, cheap book of spells, and so so book of spells, well this is the Ultimate Huge Tome of Spells. An Encyclopedia of Magical Spells from around the world, this book defiantly belongs in every Witches bookshelf. Over 1000 pages of spells, baths, infusions, the spells range from everything from Santeria, Strega, Vodou, Spiritism, Brujeria, Shamanism, and traditional Witchcraft. Unlike other spell books, this will defiantly be of great usage to its owner. One of the best Book of Shadows ever printed. The Tome, because it is Huge has everything from Banishing, Cleansings, Baths, Protection Spells. Everything from Seances, to calling on Spirits of Nature, from White Magic, to Black Magic, and everything in between. Here is a preview of the table of context.Spell casting, - Ritual and Tools, - Animal Spells - Banishing Spells - Business Success Spells - Cleansing Spells, - Court case, Legal, Justice Spells - Death Spells (Yes there is much on Black Magic, for those weak of heart) Ghost, Necromancy, and Vampire Spells. - Divination Spells - Domination, Influence Spells - Dream, Astral, Nightmare Spells- The Evil Eye - Fertility Spells - Safety Spells - Gamblers Spells, and Charms - Happy Home Spells - Healing Spells - Hexes and Curses - Invisibility, and Transformation spells - Love and Seduction Spells - Luck Spells - Marriage and Divorcee Spells, - Money, Wealth, Prosperity and financial spells - Children Spells - Protection Spells - Psychic powers - Summoning Spirits - unblocking spells - weather spells, and trust me, so much more...A person would have to spend allot of money, on many books and still would not get half of what this book has to offer.I have to give much praise to Judika Illes; this book will defiantly be one I will use for many years. This is my first book by this author, and know I have to purchase her other works. But I can not recommend this TOME enough, it is defiantly a must have for all Witches, and brujos. For all that you get in this huge book, the price is excellent, and very affordable. The Spells are simple and traditional spells that were used by our ancestors and are still effective today. No where will you get a book like this. If I could give this book 10 stars, I would.
5 This book is an excellent resource for any type of spells, and potions.  It has every catagory covered and easy to follow.
5 I wish I'd had this way back when I was first starting my magical practice, because it's truly the only spellbook you will EVER need.  The author has taken magical workings from all kinds of traditions (Hoodoo, Witchcraft, American folk magic, Santeria, etc) and put them together in an easy-to-use, easy-to-follow reference book.  Need a love spell?  Here's hundreds of them, and best of all, if you don't like the techniques in one, you can try another to your liking.  Because the spells come from so many different backgrounds and religious viewpoints, everyone from Wiccans to Christian folk magic practitioners can find something they're comfortable with.  Also, unlike many books there isn't a lot of "how to" filler added; this one sort of assumes you're already comfortable working magic, and it gets right into the "good stuff" instead of spending 200 pages telling you to cast a circle.  Finally, this is REAL magic and not the dopey, New Age "love and light" mumbo jumbo that's flooding the market these days.  Hexes, love spells, bindings, and exercising power over others has ALWAYS been a part of traditional magic practice, and this book doesn't shy away from that in favour of appeasing the "harm none" crowd.If I had to give away all of my magical books except for one, this would be the one I would keep.  Absolutely priceless.
5 "Magic is concerned with the immediate needs and desires of the practitioner in the here and now, or at least in the immediately foreseeable future. It is not about `pie in the sky'. The average magician doesn't want to wait for the possible rewards of the sweet hereafter. Magic is not for the passive..." - From the bookWhat is magic? Is it evil? What are spells? Where do magic spells come from? Author Judika Illes addresses these questions and more in the book The Element Encyclopedia of 5000 Spells. Comprehensive and engaging, this tome spans 1,108 pages and explains the nature of spell-casting as well as key concepts and techniques. Covering magical spells from a multitude of eras, traditions, and places, this exhaustive reference book also includes some spells using deadly poisonous botanicals that are provided for historical reference. (In other words, don't reproduce these spells and keep the book out of the hands of children.)So what is magic and spell-casting? According to The Element Encyclopedia of 5000 Spells:* Magic is the manipulation of Earth's naturally occurring powers in an attempt to provide the spell-caster with the success and happiness she or he desires* Magic spells are deliberate, specific attempts to harness and manipulate this energy, following some sort of formula or direction* Magic power is inherent on Earth: people didn't create it, imagine it or make it up. By various means, they learned how to use it: magic spells are the result* Every magic spell was created by at least one person and probably refined and improved by a thousand moreThe spells in this book are arranged by theme, making it easy to locate the appropriate information you need. Sachets, candle magic, baths, oils, dolls, conjure bags, powders, potions, charms, pomanders-they're all here. Some of the themes for these myriad spells include:* Banishing Spells* Marriage and Divorce Spells* Healing Spells* Better Business and Professional Success Spells* Divination Spells* Happy Home Spells* Theft, Lost Objects, and Missing Persons* Protection Spells* Fertility Spells* Psychic Power Spells* Court case Spells: Legal Spells and Spells for JusticeAnd much more.Three pages of associations for colors, planets, astrological correspondences, numbers, and Seven African Powers are also provided as is four pages of botanical classifications.Ms. Illes intersperses useful tips, fascinating lore, and sober admonitions throughout The Element Encyclopedia of 5000 Spells. For example, here are some tips she provides for Money Spells:* Primary Colors: green and gold* Primary Number: 2, because it encapsulates the concept of doubling* Planets: Jupiter, because it's the planet of good fortune; the Moon, because it's the planet of magic and fulfilled wishes; and Mercury, because the Roman god whose name it bears is involved with prosperity and finance* Spells for financial growth, to increase money or business, should coincide with the waxing moonMs. Illes is obviously an excellent researcher but she also has the gift of making esoteric information both understandable and intriguing. Whether you're seeking spells for Craftwork or just have an interest in occultic books, The Element Encyclopedia of 5000 Spells imparts a wealth of historical, magical, and practical information to the reader.Janet Boyer, author of The Back in Time Tarot Book: Picture the Past, Experience the Cards, Understand the Present (coming Fall 2008 from Hampton Roads Publishing)
5 I bought this book used and quite honestly figured that it would a New Agey type of book for spells.  It was cheaply priced so I thought, "What the heck? Might as well."  I was very pleasantly surprised at the research that went into gathering these spells.  There are many authentic Hoodoo spells, and others from other traditions.  They are excellently categorized.  The book offers both a Table of Contents and an Index.  Excellent choice.  This is a book that all those working with folk magic should have.
4 When I first bought this book, I was amazed at the amount of great research and diversity to be found. 97% of these spells are very good and effective, but the 3% left are just plain silly and stupid.(Look at the end of the love spells section.)Also, many of the ingredients listed in the book may be hard to make and procure, but just visit the lucky mojo curio company for many of these things.Great book, even if some of these spells are just flat out silly.
5 This book must have EVERYTHING inside it lol,  I am still trying to read this and understand a lot of it, as there is over a thousand pages. I deff. recommend this book to anyone wanting to know every possible spell they can think of!!!! Good purchase, very happy!
5 My husband was actually the one who wanted this book.  He's less traditional than I am, and will grab subjects I wouldn't normally look at.  It has, however, turned into a wonderful reference tool for both of us.  It has a myriad of subjects and "issues" that can be solved with magick.  From charms to spells, this book has it covered.  I've used it for several ideas for my magickal needs over the years.  I wouldn't recommend it for a beginner.  Many of the ingredients sound like something that came out of a fantasy novel, and can easily confuse someone new.  However, for anyone well versed in the magickal arts, I think it's a must have.
5 you can't find a more complete compendium of really old spells than this one! This is a must have even if you use it for reference.
5 I absolutely love this book! This reference book is a wonderful addition to any witches library. I highly recommend it!
5 I have read the whole thing.  It took me six months.Excellent broad-spectrum reference; not only 5000 spells (I think.  I didn't count them.), but also a detailed formulary and information on the theory of spellcraft.  I'm looking forward to reading the Element Encyclopedia of Witchcraft, which is next on my list.
5 I cannot say enough to recommend this book. Unfortunately I have shelves full of books of magic that are pure fluff with no meat and potatoes. This book is jammed full of practical techniques for every magical need that can arise. The spells come from all over the world, not just one magical tradition. The formulary will have you making your own potions in no time.It is a hefty 1100 pages hardback wonderful presentation. No little witch should be without this treasure, from neophyte to adept. An excellent practical Book of Shadows
5 This is a fabulous resource for anyone interested in wicca and the like.  It's recommended over and over again by people who have been practicing for years.  The spells themselves are interesting, but the introduction and other commentary almost intrigue me more.  Very informative and useful.  I really am enjoying this book.
4 It is pertinent to note that this book is not, and never was intended to be, solely Wiccan. It is a collection of spells from many faiths across the ages. Because of this, there may be spells in this book that you find unsavory or unethical. Don't worry! No one is holding you at gunpoint and making you -do- those spells. They only exist in this book to give you a better look at what witchcraft was (and could still be, if in the wrong hands). It is, after all, better to know and be prepared instead of assuming all witches follow your faith's moral code and there is no nasty business in the world. This isn't utopia, mind you.In the spirit of preparedness, if you are ever faced with the nastier spells, this book has a large array of spells to reverse and dissolve curses. Go you!This two-tonne tome would surely put the hurt on your foot if ever dropped. It is jam-packed with a wide variety of spells, from innocent to malicious, lightweight to hardcore, some practical and some not so much. A great pick for spell collectors and advanced practitioners.  My only complaint is that there are SO MANY SPELLS that it feels like a monumental task to consult its wisdom.  That's to be expected from a book that says it has 5000 spells right on the cover, but I just tend to forget how big a number that is ;)I would -not- recommend this for beginners. In fact, if you're a beginning witch with this book, let me know so I can smack you upside the head with it.Edit: 18 July 07:  Now that I've tried a couple of spells from this book myself, I felt an update to my review was needed.  If I was only "amazed" by the book, there are absolutely no words for my level of amazement in the spells themselves. I have -never- experienced such amazing results from a spell I plucked from a book.  This one is never leaving my collection!
5 This is a huge compilation of spells, folk magic, and potions.  There is no Wiccan ethical standard used in the book, so one has to remember for oneself the "3-fold" rule before using some of the spells.  However, it's nice to at least be able to read about a full range of spells, not just a sifted slathering.  I especially found the Hoodoo spells interesting, as more of folk-magic types of spells.The index is sometimes difficult to use, but I can usually find what I'm looking for.I have found that after looking up various spells in other books, I go to this one and find the same spells and more in this one.  I have to praise the truly comprehensive nature of this book.  What an undertaking this must have been to put together!
4 This book was as huge as it said it was going to be. Very informative and full of spells. I didn't give it a 5 because i don't know if any of them work. But it is a joy to have just in case. I love it so far, and it has a good formula section to make flower water etc
5 I'm going to keep this short and sweet. This book leaves plenty of room for the imagination, but with just a hint of guidance. From one practioner to another, this book is very handy. This has been a splendid add to my collection and I just can't put it down....
5 I can't say enough about this book. Judika certainly know's her stuff and this book has extensive research and magic. there is something here for everyone. actually this was my first book on Magic I got and I was blown away by it, I'am innitiated to Palo/Orisha/Kemetic and practice Vodun and Obeah and found a spell for every path. there is spell's from every corner of the world and the begining of the book offers a wealth of knowelege. the introduction introduce's the reader to various techniques and history before you even begin to use the book. I have many books on magic and this is by far the ultimate. this is the mother of all magic books. Judika Illes rules supreme!!
5 Although this book contains some un-practical magick, it is still a wonderful book to own.  It contains spells from every corner of the earth and can be informational for infusions, tinctures, baths, incenses and oils, etc.  I highly recommend that anyone interested in earth religions give this book a try!
5 i love the spells in the book and they are not hard!to anyone practicing magic.its a great ad for the collection!and i love because of the hard cover!the service was fast and great
5 This book is a huge collection of spells from various cultures and time periods all aver the world. Although most are simple and primitive they are very well organized and can easily be modified accordingly for your own uses.I especially liked the begininning of the book where the forces of magic are explained really well and it was very motivating to read.Just thumbing through some of the spells has been an inspiration and given me great ideas for my own spell creation and modification.I guess my only small complaint is that I wish the various spell categories were not organized so much towards conventional modern life as in- spells to get a job, find love, make more money etc.. I was hoping for more out of the ordinary categories.Anyway this is definately a great magic spell reference to have around when you might need it.
5 Finally a book that focuses on all types of spells! Not just "white" ones,but hexes, defense, etc.Now I'm not saying every spell in this book will work or is even safe(some use poison herbs...but the author warns of this)but its a great resource for anyone looking for the "action" part of witchcraft instead of books that tell you the things you may already know by heart.Its not hard to find a certain spell either, its well organized and put together in a beautiful way...the beginning part of the book gives a "short story" version of how spells work and such. I would definitely recommend this book to anyone looking for a good COMPLEAT spell-book that gives the option to pick and choose at your pleasure. Even a good reference book for beginners.
5 but very, very good.I first came across this book while killing time in a mall bookstore. I was intrigued by the information listed on the cover and promptly came home to look up the author and the book. While Ms. Illes' website didn't contain as much information as I'd hoped for, it did give me enough insight into the author that I felt I could trust her work. The reviews I found online were also helpful. I returned to the bookstore and found a comfortable spot where I could sit and study the book in more detail.The cost of this book, while not outrageous or unjustified, was high enough to make me cautious. When I purchase a book I do so with the long term in mind. I rarely get rid of books once I've bought them, so it's important that they be well worth keeping around. And this book is definitely worth keeping around. The majority of my books spend most of their time on the shelf, this book sits next to me at my desk. I reference it, use it, or just skim through it at least once a day.The organization of the book is absolutely wonderful. If, for some reason, I can't figure out which section to go to from the Table Of Contents, I need merely flip to the index to find precisely what I need. Both Index and Table of Contents are very thorough and logically arranged. In particular the sub-heading feature of the Index makes finding things ever so much easier.As the title of my review indicates, I found the book to be less a 'spell' book than a 'potion' book. Not that this is a bad thing. In fact, I was rather looking for just that. The included Formulary, that gives you the instructions for making War Water, Black Cat Oil, Graveyard Dust and so very much more, is utterly invaluable. If there was anything I'd change about this book it would be to quadruple the size of the Formulary. However, the Formulary is quite large as it is.One of my other favourite things about this book is that the spells/potions/etc are not all 'white light'. There are Hexes and Curses and so forth along with ways to counter such things. I find this important because I'm non-dualist and I find dualistic thinking to be limited and...well, childish. So that's another area that makes me cherish this book.On a purely silly note, having this lovely big book (which is a lovely green hardcover under the paper sleeve) around is just plain fun. If you're a fan of some of the modern witchy type shows/movies such as Harry Potter or Charmed, having a large tome of spells allows you to play pretend.And finally, I'd like to mention the author's tone of voice that comes through in the book. It is very friendly, often humorous and always knowledgeable. When necessary, very clear and direct warnings are given. The author treats the reader as if she had a good head on her shoulder and was past the novice stage in her training. I find that remarkably refreshing.
5 This book is LOADED with spells!  My goodness, I have never seen anything like it!  Whatever type of spell you need, it has.
5 I have bought many books on magic and the arts, most of which have been misleading.  This Encyclopedia of Spells is an excellent reference guide for approaching situations from different perspectives.  I would recommend this "encyclopedia" to those who have some experience in the arts as they would be more likely to "read tween the lines" of what is written and what is possible. I do NOT consider this a Wiccan book, AT ALL, but rather something that one from ANY magical path can obtain relevent references from within it's pages.
5 I'll keep it short and sweet.This is a wonderful reference book.  Now for those of you who hold true to Wiccan beliefs there is a good 25% of the book's spells you wouldn't even give a second thought to.  I have a strong Wiccan background, and I still find these spells to be good reference material.The other 75% of the book has a wide variety of spells, which could be applied and adapted for almost any Pagan practice.  I enjoy using this book to create new ideas of spell work and spell kits.  I plan on buying the other books in this series.
5 What a fun huge book!Each time you look through it, you find something new.It contains spells that can be used, and spells of old.It's neat to read what kind of spells they used way back when, and what we know now.Besides Spells, from the simple to the involved, there are recipes for powders, oils, and other items needed for the spells given.A great book to look through on a rainy day.  Might find a spell to stop it too.  ~smile~
5 This book has loads of information in it.  It is the perfect addition to my bookshelf.  I will gladly shop with you again and again.
4 it took me a week to plough through all the spells... i then compiled 150 spells (from this book) thatanyone could do, using simple herbs from their kitchen.all the other spells require a bunch of obscure ingredients that, let's face it - most people are not going to seek out - not even me.there are traditional spells (passed down from centuries) which are interesting. and you learn about all the gods/goddesses to invoke for what, where and when. fab.personally, i like to do spells that require a mix of rituals and using chanting/dialogue. (your word is your wand kinda thing),but i'd say, over 90% of these spells involve no chanting/dialogue.lot's of very simple spells that are almost... similar to just superstitions. ie: throw salt over your shoulder, kinda thing.best thing, is to get the basics from this book, and then elaborate/make it your own.
4 I love this book. It is vary helpful and most of the spells are not laid out like do this do that now say this. They are the bare bones of a spell and really allow for personal play. I find this to be vary helpful and add a more personal touch to make the spell your own. I highly recommend this book to anyone who practices witchcraft.Edit: I changed it from 5 stars to 4 because while the content is great the damn book is falling apart! Pages come out with the slightest pressure and I mean whole pages not tears which says to me bad binding...
5 Upon receiving this book, I recognized about 500 pages and immediately put it off, assuming I had no time to read such a long book. When I finally found the time in my schedule, I was pleasantly surprised. The book was very good and touching, sharing the stories of three Irish women who are facing hidden trials and tribulations for fear of damaging their reputation. When one of them finally makes a stand, the others' lives begin to unravel even faster leaving them all scrambling for the resolutions to their problems. The only problem I had with this book was Kelly's overuse of certain phrases ("solar plexus", "nineteen to the dozen", etc) which began to sound cliche page after page. However, the book is something I would definitely recommend to anyone wishing to look into four seemingly perfect lives to see everyone has imperfections.
4 If you enjoy reading Rosamund Pilcher and Maeve Binchy, you will enjoy this book.  Unlike Pilcher and Binchy's books, this story is set in present day Ireland.  In the Irish country town of Kinvarra, Rose and Hugh are preparing to celebrate their 40th wedding anniversary.  We meet their children, Stella, single mother, Tara, newly married and Holly, youngest of the three daughters.  We also meet a number of other people, both "straight laced" and very modern.  Characters in this book are enjoyable and most important believable.  The plot flows smoothly. I am looking forward to reading more books by Cathy Kelly.
1 I found it very hard to get into this book and consequently I havn't managed to finish it.  Usually I can keep pushing through books but not this one.  Its boring and dull has no life the characters are dull.  If those of you who have managed to get through this book and have enjoyed it, good for you and well done
5 From the outside looking in, most people would think that the life of the Millers is perfect, but as you read Just Between Us, you begin to see that it is far from the truthHugh and Rose are have been married for 40 years and on the day of their anniversary party Rose walks out of the marriage because she finally faced the truth about Hugh having affairs over the years.Stella, the oldest child is divorced with a young daughter of her own. She may have a brilliant career as a lawyer but is afraid at her age, she may never find true love. In walks Nick, the man she could be happy forever with except he is also divorced with an overbearing ex-wife and two teenage daughters that are against him moving on.Tara, the middle child is newly married to the dashing Fin and has a promising career as a writer. Life should be happy and easy for her but Fins mother resents her and we soon learn that Fin is an alcoholic.Holly, the youngest child is shy and does not even realize how beautiful she really is. She finally meets the man of her dreams but is afraid to tell him how she feels.Just Between Us brings the lives of these people together in a wonderful story about family, love, and how we handle what life throws at us.Cathy Kelly is a talented storyteller and reminds me a great deal of the ever popular Maeve Binchy in her heyday. If you have not given this Irish writer a chance, Just Between Us is a great place to start. Topping off at 544 pages, the story never slowed down or lost my interest.
4 This is a wonderfully told story.  Some of the minor characters seemed a bit improbable but that's what fiction is all about!  There are so few stories written today about families that really love each other so the relationship between the sisters is rewarding.  Each chapter changes to continue the story line of one family member or another as the story progresses.  At the end of each chapter I would be so interested that I was disappointed to rejoin the story of a different character - which character I would forget about two pages into the next chapter!  The only reason a star is missing is that the ending left me with an unsettled feeling for one of the sisters because in reality her husband's alcoholism would not be so easily dealt with.
4 This was my first novel by author Cathy Kelly.  When I first started reading, her style reminded of Maeve Bincy, one of my favorite Irish authors.  JUST BETWEEN US revolves around the Miller family, or more specifically, the four women of the family.  Matriarch Rose has always been the envy of the town of Kinvarra--particularly her sometimes-spiteful sister-in-law, Adele--for her seemingly "perfect" life.  However, as her 40th "Ruby" anniversary approaches, the cracks in Rose's seemingly perfect life begin to show.  Her oldest daughter, Stella, is as attractive as her mother and an adoring single mother.  When a second chance at love comes along, she couldn't be happier--but is her new relationship doomed to failure?  Middle child Tara is a talented writer for a succesful soap opera and madly in love with her husband of six months, yet things keep going wrong.  Only youngest Holly openly believes her life to be flawed, as she has struggled with low self-esteem since childhood despite being beloved by others.With this setup, Kelly alternates a third person point-of-view amongst Rose and the three girls.  Although interesting, the story moves rather slowly.  Most of the plotlines are projected WAY in advance yet take a LONG time to develop.  Given this, I found myself getting a little bored, especially in the middle part of the book; the last third of the novel, which had more conflict and eventual resolution, held my attention a bit better.  Still, for my first Cathy Kelly read, I enjoyed JUST BETWEEN US, and I would be willing to try another one of her books again in the future.
4 Cathy Kelly tells an empathetic tale about a family that at first seems to have it all, until one day everything begins to unravel, strand by strand. She does this using very well-written humor we can all identify with, never falling into anything trite or melodramatic.  That she's already a bestselling author in Britain comes to no surprise to me, as all the elements of bestseller status are represented in this book.This is a light, easy read that's heavy with meaning.  We can all identify with the characters; they're all three-dimensional and very sympathetic. The reader comes to care deeply about them by the end of the book. There are also plot twists and turns, and things that seem very simple to start out with soon become very complicated.Each daughter, Stella, Tara and Holly, is completely distinct, and each is coming from a different place in life. Stella's a struggling single mother, Tara's a young married woman who soon realizes life isn't all wine and roses, and Holly's the less self-assured youngest sister, battling self esteem issues. Throw in their parents, who throw them for a loop, and you have a very interesting recipe for a bit of family dysfunction most people are familiar with, at least sometimes in life.Just Between Us would be a great book to throw in your bag on vacation, or take to the cabin for that last vacation before the snow flies. If you're looking for a light read intelligently written, this would be a very good bet.
5 ONCE AGAIN I COULD  NOT BUT THE BOOK DOWN AND READ UNTIL 2 IN THE MORNING.  LOVE YOUR BOOKCATHY
4 I read this book during a very trying time in my life (loss of daughter in law) and at times this was difficult for me to read but in the end I felt that it was very reassuring to know that other people experience difficulties in their life and are able to carry on.
4 I enjoyed this novel, as I do most of Kathy Kelly's work. I found the characters likeable - I could have slapped Holly for calling herself "stupid" all the time - but basically I found it a good read.I liked the character of Rose, the mother, who publicly exposes her philandering husband and thought the ending was satisfying.
5 I love this book!  All of Cathy Kelly's books give the point of view of a few different people and it keeps you so interested.  The main characters this time were that of a well known family in a small town.  Rose, the matriarch is just approaching her 40th wedding anniversary and has kept the fact that her husband unfaithful to herself for almost all of the 40 years.  Her oldest daughter, Stella, is raising her young daughter on her own and is just falling in love for the first time since the birth of her daughter.  Rose's middle daughter, Tara, is blissfully newly married, or so she thought.  Tara is struggling through her whirlwind marriage and learning her husband has a few secrets of his own.  And Rose's poor youngest daughter, Holly, has a lack of self confidence all stemming from Rose's own problems when Holly was a baby.It's such a good book that takes you into the minds of each of the woman and they gain control of their lives.
5 In Kinvarra, Ireland, Rose and Hugh Miller are about to celebrate their fortieth wedding anniversary.  The parents are especially proud of each of their adult daughters who will join them for a gala to mark the event.  Stella, a single mom, is a successful lawyer; Tara has done well as a soap opera writer and recently married; her youngest Holly seems happy with an artistic life.  Everything seems perfect for the Miller brood as they prepare for the ruby wedding party.However the matriarch does not see her world through rose colored glasses.  She has some doubts about spending her golden years with Hugh.  Stella is brilliant at law and even as a mom, but feels lonely as the love of her life has never surfaced; Tara is doing great at the job, but the love of her life appears to be a drunk; Holly may be the envy of everyone due to her free lifestyle, but in reality is bored yet fears making any changes.  These four females will bond even more so over the course of the festivities.This is a tremendous family drama as the four females through asides and discussions reveal that they reveal doubts about their so-called perfect worlds.  Each feels they suffer from a major failure at something significant yet also knows that they share a sisterly bond (including one with the matriarch) that helps each cope with their personal crisis not solving them only surviving their troubles and misgivings.  Readers will find this book a powerful and realistic character study.Harriet Klausner
5 Cathy Kelly'sJust Between Usis a richly textured tale of a "perfect" family that begins to slowly reveal itself as one with all the ordinary flaws and foibles that plague most people; it is this probing beneath the surface that yields a peek into the intriguing aspects of each of the primary characters.As the story begins, Rose and Hugh Miller are approaching their fortieth anniversary, and as the celebratory moment nears, we learn more about the two of them; Rose uncovers a secret, and while she's planning the party, she is also considering how to deal with it.Meanwhile, the three adult daughters are each struggling with their own issues.  Stella, the eldest, has a successful career as an attorney, and as the single mother to Amelia, believes that her life is just the way it will stay.  She expects no romance or any surprises at all.Tara, the middle child, writes for a successful soap opera, and as a newly-wed with a dream husband, she believes that all is just the way it should be.While Holly, the youngest, is plagued by insecurities and longs for a love that seems to never arrive, the other two begin to find that their lives are not what they thought they were.This is the heart of the story, but what sets it apart are the rich details that give us more than a peek into their lives--we almost feel as if we are walking alongside them.  As if they are our friends and neighbors, with their struggles part of us.  We root for them, and sometimes want to yell at them for making foolish choices or mistakes.A rather long book (530 pages), I kept reading, because I truly wanted to partake of every eventful moment in the lives of the characters.Definitely five stars!
4 Cathy Kelly's novel, Just Between Us, is as warm and satisfying as a bowl of Irish Oats.  Set in the Emerald Isle, Just Between Us tells the story of three sisters.  Stella, the oldest, is a hard-working, lonely single mother.  Although she adores her daughter and enjoys being a mother, she yearns for something more.  She does not realize it, but she is looking for love.  Her feelings of longing, lonliness, and hopefulness are feelings we can all identify with...and that's the brilliance of Kelly's novel.  Each sister experiences feelings and challenges that the average reader can identify with.  Tara, the middle sister, is newly married and still caught up in the whirlwind of her romance.  So caught up, in fact, that she does not see her new husband for what he is:  a sad, conflicted soul who indulges in destructive activities to cope with his pain.  Holly, the youngest sister, is a twenty-something with a whole trunkload of baggage.  She is swan who is gliding along, believing she is the ugliest duckling in the pond.  These feelings of inadequacy keep her (for a time) from reaching her potential, from succeeding professionally and personally.But, like a bowl of Irish Oats, this hearty tale ends deliciously and satisfyingly.  The sisters find peace and happiness in their lives and learn that familial love is the strongest bond of all.
1 I wonder why people love this book so much. I found it too silly and dull even for chick-lit standards. Witty dialogue is just stupid, characters are sterotypes or underdeveloped or uninteresting and the book is way too long. It needs serious editing - the art of everyday detail should be left to more skilled writers.
5 Loved it.
3 The main characters in this book are grandmother Rose, glamorous and well known, spends her days with charity work. She is married to Hugh, wealthy with a good career. This book is about the lead up to their 40th wedding anniversary.Rose and Hugh have 3 daughters. Stella is the oldest, is a single mum and works as a solicitor. The second daughter Tara is a script writer, married to a `Brad Pitt Lookalike' and the youngest, and probably most likeable Holly is searching for love and works in a department store. Holly not being very confident doesn't realise how beautiful she is.This book was okay but not as enjoyable as some of Kelly's other books.
5 Contemporary and heartwarming, this story is about a family who seems to have it all until one day they start having to open up one by one until they realize that everyone has ups and downs. Cathy Kelly does a tremendous job of making the characters sympathetic and believable. It felt like home when I read it and helped me feel even more comfortable with my family. It's good to be reminded that we are only human and that its okay to have faults and mistakes. Afterall, a true friend is one who knows all your faults, your deepest/darkest secrets and still loves you for you. This is a from the heart page turner that starts out simple, but with the greatly timed twists and plots, this story grows more complicated with every chapter, and sometimes every page. I would highly reccomend this book!Also recommended:  The Rock Orchard by Paula Ward
4 Set in present day Ireland, Just Between Us weaves a tale of three sisters and their loving parents.  As the story opens, the family seems to have it all: the parents are celebrating 40 years together, eldest daughter Stella is successfully raising her daughter while practicing law, middle daughter Tara is a script writer who has married the man of her dreams, and youngest daughter Holly has taken a job in a department store that promises her a bright future.  But is this what is really going on?  Kelly masterfully peels back the layers until we see beneath the careful facades and can get to know each of these characters on different levels.Evocative of Rosamund Pilcher, Kelly writes a strong family drama that entertains and engages.  I became entangled with these characters; I could feel the torn feelings of the parents as they faced life-altering decisions, as well as feeling gripped by the traumas each of the girls encountered.  If at times the author could have used a better editor to keep the story more focused, overall this book is very well written and pulls you in easily and fully.  Not normally the type of book I read, I found myself wondering about the characters' lives during free moments and I am sure I will continue to wonder how their lives have gone now that I've closed the last page.  I certainly will seek out more by this author.  Recommended reading!
3 I did not think this book was as good as some of her others, but a good light read just the same
4 Cathy Kelly is someone I had never read before, and I'm anxious to see what else she has written. She started with a funny and self-deprecating dedication to all the people who kept her going and helped her to keep on track in finishing the book, and you would never know it, because it held my complete interest for well over 400 pages.The story of a modern Irish family of three grown women and their parents, Just Between Us is as contemporary as it is heartwarming. Rose and Hugh Miller are about to celebrate their 40th anniversary. Rose is still lovely and a pillar of her circle: charity work, gracious parties, committee attendance, and all the rest. Affable Hugh, well-off and from an old monied family, is equally charming. But is something wrong beneath the surface?Daughter Stella is divorced with one winsome daughter, Amelia. A successful attorney, Stella shuns all men, preferring to give her daughter a stable life instead. But Stella is young and beautiful--can this last? Middle daughter Tara is a writer on one of Ireland's most successful soap operas. She is madly in love with her husband Finn, whom she married after only 6 months of courtship. Now, she is learning things about Finn that could tear them apart. Youngest daughter Holly sees herself as fat and unattractive, not realizing her beauty and appeal. A sweet, funny and smart woman, she lives in a flat with two fun friends (funky designer and gay fashionista) right across the hall. They cook, hang out, and confide. Until a handsome male stranger moves into the flat one floor above...Told with compassion, humor and a bit of sass, Just Between Us is a great book to read on a weekend day when it's too cold outside to rake the leaves. Yes, it has a happy ending, and no, I won't apologize for loving the heck out of it.Highly recommended!
5 It's true what others say, this book is not the book for the astrologer, its not a reference book explaining Why or How, this is a book written by astrologers for people who want to learn about the essence of their SUN-MOON combination. This book is indeed a party book, or a short reference book. If you want to summarize or enhance, better understand a loved one, this is the book. It had ever combination, but the information is not excessive. Remember this is Just sun-moon, there is a lot more to be evaluated in one's chart. Anyway, this book is awesome, I would not part with mine, a must have. The authors have a great accurate, descriptive, vocabulary. They pull great quotes from celebrities of the same sun-moon, fantastic quotes. I like to read this book aloud.
5 This is one of my favorite astrology books! The key to a person is their combined Sun and Moon signs. The Harvey's did such a great job with the 144 descriptions, offering up a general overview, pointing out strengths and weaknesses, and offering some insights on relationships. One of my favorite things is that they offer "Images for Integration" for each of the combinations that are similar to the Sabian Symbols. From the pricing above, it looks like this book may be hard to come by. If you find one that fits your budget, snatch it up.
5 I find myself referencing this book on a regular-basis, it really is a great book and a great way for anybody to learn more about themselves.
5 This particular book was recommended to me by a trusted astrologer.  The Harveys have done an amazing job with their insightful knowledge about sun/moon sign combinations. They have absolutely done their homework.  Quite stunning in the accuracy.  I highly recommend this book for the seasoned astrologer's book shelf and for any one just interested in the subject matter. It is quite possibly the best of its kind out there.
3 I was able to find my moon sign in this book but then I was in over my head. I gave it 3 stars because I liked the content in it. This book is not for the invoice in my opinion.  It's worth the money but I have read easier books on the subject.
3 I'm going slightly against the grain with this review.  I thought the book was interesting, but overall fairly simple and missing much in the realm of new information.I will say that since the book is 8 years old, when it was written, it probably contained information that was considered more ground-breaking or surprising at the time.  But, with all of the popular reality/popular TV shows and books available today either written, produced, or inspired by some of today's top psychics and/or ghost hunters, this book is starting to show its age.I picked it up used, so wasn't disappointed to add it to my collection; however, I would have a problem paying full price knowing what's inside the two covers.
5 The 1st book Echo Bodine book I read was "Relax, It's Only a Ghost", and I completed a review of it. This book, "Dear Echo" is a slightly larger volume.  At the end of "Relax", Echo asked readers to mail her their ghost experiences and questions. The format of "Dear Echo" has readers' letters, followed by Echo's responses to those letters.  On one hand, this format is nice because you are reading about many people's ghost experiences. On the other hand, I just didn't appreciate the format as much as the simpler series of tales told in "Relax".That said, though, I very much enjoyed the expanded information in "Dear Echo", compared to the slimmer 1st volume. And the things I liked about the 1st book are still here in the 2nd book, only more and better. The writing style is straightforward and accessible - Echo is not lording it over anybody with her abilities. And Echo is matter-of-fact about ghosts and spirits (not the same thing). That is, she makes it clear that they are not mystical mumbo-jumbo, but are part of the universe just as surely as our corporeal bodies are part of the universe.I'd also like to mention one thing I had in my 1st review that is important to me - so I'm making a point of including it here. Echo often frames her understanding of ghosts and spirits in religious terms, "heaven", "praying", "soul", "angels", "God". However, though it is evident she has a strong faith herself, I don't feel Echo means to impose a specific religious view. For example, she writes about asking "God or the universe" to cleanse negativity.The new information in the book is most welcome. She touches on astral projection, which is one "psychic" experience I've had. It is not the same as a ghost and is not the same as a dream and contrary to what you may think, your soul is always in control.She also emphasizes that ghosts can be troublesome, and some may refuse to go over, but, in general, YOU are the one with the body and YOU are the one in control. As she advised one letter writer, "You are giving these experiences too much power". You may not be able to get them to go over, but you can keep them from bothering you, if you really want to.And then there are the cases where people don't really want the ghost to leave, for whatever reason.  Their choice!One short paragraph was rather heartbreaking. In both books, Echo talks about how calling on, or talking about, a dead person can sometimes bring them back as a ghost, whether you welcome them or not. In this particular instance, a woman called in to a radio show where Echo was guesting, to say that she had recently lost a child and she was "praying to this child every day to help her get through life".  The problem with that is that she may actually have hindered her child going over.In short, I think what I really liked about Echo's books and about Echo's style is that the straightforwardness is believable.  Her books, and her brother Michael's book, are the first books about ghostbusting which made me think that the process is real and not in someone's overactive imagination.
5 I have now read everything this author has written, and she never ceases to amaze me with her great writing style & genuine care to provide lay-persons with the info. they seek.  Whether it's about intuition, the soul, psychic development, or ghosts, you can find what you need in Echo's books.This particular book, "Dear Echo", contains EVERYTHING you ever wanted to know about ghosts.  Have you ever wondered if a ghost can hurt you, or why there are any ghosts out there to begin with?  You'll find the answer here.  Or, have you ever wondered how you can "get rid of" a unwanted otherworldly guest?  Echo provides specific steps to do just that.If you are at all interested in the subject of ghosts, even if you're "scared to death" of them (or especially so if that's the case), then this is the book for you.  It's easy to read & filled to the brim with great information - you can't go wrong with this one!
5 Wow! I read this book in a day and I am pretty impressed. Everything that Echo talks about all seems to make sense. All my questions or thoughts that I might of had about ghosts and spirits were answered.
2 With the exception of an interesting theory on the difference between ghosts and spirits, this book wasn't very helpful, informative nor interesting.  There is a definite commercial slant as all of her "answers" are set-ups for her to refer you to her other books, etc. Glad I checked it out from the local library instead of paying for it.
4 as usual david Pawson comes up with the goodies, (thanks to Kindle )an easy to read manual, the hard copy book is huge, but with Kindle so great to get through.This is a very good study book. I strongly recommend this book for anyone serious about studying the Bible
4 The book is very helpful for first time reader of the whole Bible. It highlights the background and the essence of various books. Good starter for reading the Scripture. The good thing is that it covers the whole Bible from Old to New Testament.
5 "Unlocking the Bible" is an excellent source of information. It helps to make sense of the chronology of Biblical events. Very reader friendly.
5 One way I can sum up this review is to say, I'll probably never be through reading this book I mean that as in - you can never be "through" reading the Bible. THAT'S how good David Pawson's book is. I'm going to keep it with my Bible and refer to it every time I do my daily Bible study. I have at least eight bookmarks throughout and numerous highlighting and markings. I intend to use it over and over again because with one read through, it's virtually impossible to gather all the interesting commentary this book contains.Pawson covers every single book of the Bible and does so with incredible insights, and detailed commentary. He also uses charts as he does in Isaiah where he outlines the different reigns in Isaiah's time or in Daniel with "Historical Events Predicted in Daniel 11:2-35" or one of my favorites an O.T. Hebrew history, just to name a few.The author opens each chapter with an overview of the book, does a general outline replete with explanation and commentary, and ends with a conclusion. He gives most every chapter a thorough going over in an organized manner.At over 1000 pages, it's long, however when this is viewed as reference material, the length doesn't actually matter.The book isn't perfect. I do have some cons.Pawson's introduction seemed rather self-serving. He says, "I enjoy listening to my tapes and can be deeply moved by myself. I am enthusiastic about reading one of my new publications, often telling my wife, `This really is good stuff.' But when I read a transcript of what I have said, I am ashamed and even appalled." That was just one example of what I felt to be a less than modest view about his work woven through the introduction. I had hoped for more of a humble servant given the material.I also was disappointed in Pawson's handling of 2 Corinthians. He essentially ignored the nine gifts of the Spirit. He ventures to offer his opinion on any number of matters throughout the entire book, but for some unknown reason, did not address that these gifts are listed and how relevant they are, or aren't, for today's Christian. The fact he mentions many details in other portions of the book repeatedly and adds supporting arguments makes this omission particularly perplexing."Unlocking The Bible" is a comprehensive and obviously well researched work, the fact that the author's insights aren't perfect shouldn't be a deterrent. What author of a scholarly work is perfect?In conclusion, I highly recommend this as a must-have book right along with a good concordance for anyone serious about studying the Bible.
5 I am still going through this book. Have found it to be an excellent reference resource...so easy to read and understand
5 Great all round summation and an easily read comprehensive modern bible commentry. While its shear size could be daunting it is actually easy to scan through with a logical set out. Not overly technical or swamped in arcane theological terms. Pawson set out many alternate arguments and points of view on most contentious topics, with well reasoned analysis and conclusions also. A great introduction for the layman. Interesting perpectives also as Pawson is a Greek scholar. I bought it in Kindle and paperback it is that good.
5 Pawson has a wonderful series of videos on youTube that give an intro to each book of the Bible, which is really needed since the basics of reading this &#34;library&#34; - the foundation of science, equal rights, abolition, and essentially the best parts of the modern world - is not taught in school anymore. However, the book is not the video series transcribed, as he took pains to make it, well, a book rather than a transcription. The format and content are different for each delivery method.After discovering how little the common person knew about the Bible, Pawson started a movement to get people reading the Bible again. His overviews of each book show how they fit into the whole, the main messages and points and signposts needed in order to understand why it is this way and what you are reading and how to apply it to life. All these are badly needed to avoid becoming a casualty of trying to read through the Old Testament without any guidance, especially books like Leviticus and Jeremiah.I don't agree with some of his interpretations such as &#34;Jesus descending into hell to preach&#34; but this is a very hard passage to undestand and Christian commentators have different view on it. However, not everyone will agree about everything, and the on the most important points there is widespread consensus, so it's not a biggie, unless you go the crazy way of Kenneth Copeland et al.Highly recommended along with his video series.
5 I Love David Pawson, I have read some stand alone books like &#34;come with me through Mark&#34; this book has essentially a little text like that for each book in the Bible. Great companion for your Bible..
5 It is a very big book and I have not read it all, but hope to in time. I have told others about it!
5 Unlocking the Bible is a helpful tool for anyone reading a bible, but haven't got the time to do endless research and dig into thick commentaries. It is filled with relevant background insights which brings each book of the bible to life and sheds light on a correct reading and understanding of it.So many "commentaries" are written for theology students which, let's face it the average believer is not going to read. This book fills that gap and is certainly very helpful to read through before or after having studied a book in the bible.It's a book for the everyday man or woman and I would highly recommend it!
5 I first saw/heard David Pawson in a Bible expository video published by GoodTV in Taiwan.I was intrigued by his style of teaching.  Rich in background and he stayed faithful in context.Not pushing or hurrying into spiritual explanations or forcing some unnatural meaning into the Bible but truly deriving from the historical background, the context, the situation of the author, all of the background information together to form the message of what God is trying to tell the readers through the authors.I couldn't believe it when I got the book.  1738 pages!!!!  I was shocked and surprised of the information the Pawson had provided.WIth another author, they would've made this into a 5 book series charging as much as 99.99 or more for the entire series.But, for under $10, this was like finding a ruby in a garage sale for 25 cents.Read it, and find David Pawson's 12 teachings on Revelation in [...].Pawson Should get this book translated into many different languages.
5 Take note please - these are the views of an unregenerate Gentile.First some general points:1) When it comes to building a quality library on the narrow Way, one must remember that to step outside of Holy Scripture itself, is to step onto fallible territory; bearing in mind one is on such perilous ground, one must neither be too strict or too lax.1a) If one is looking for perfection (and a total absence of even one or two regrettable sentences here 'n' there), your library will consist of Holy Scripture alone (and whilst some 'scholarly' teachers have done catastrophic damage to the narrow Way, God has and does provide sincere, dedicated teachers outside of Holy Scripture).1b) On the other hand, if you are not careful to make sure that your authors are not WINESKinCARCERATED in some serious way (e.g. TULIP Theology; PRE-Trib Theology; Cessationism; yes, even Arminian/Wesleyan Theology), you yourself can be guided into the same distorted man-made wineskin as the writer (i.e. denomination and/or teaching system/framework). Many sincere evangelicals (for instance) have failed to learn the lesson of 1 Corinthians 3:4, labelling themselves as either an 'Arminian' or a 'Calvinist.' And not only that, but your library can grow into an increasing CHAFF-reservoir of serious error; God breathed Holy Scripture will be increasingly watered down; worse still (and noting 2 Timothy 4:3-4 in particular), the SWEET and SOUR words of Messiah Jesus (who is God and Truth) are more and more likely to become a drop in the ocean of one-sided SWEET-only, fear-removing DISTORTION (note Hebrews 12:28-29, 1 Peter 1:17 and Matthew 10:28).That CHAFF-reservoir can subtly become the HEAD; Holy Scripture the TAIL. At the start of the process, person unknowingly takes hold of distorted books and begins to feed on what is written; in due course the situation is reversed: the distorted books take hold of the person! (Pride and self-interest being what they are, the more entrenched a person becomes, the more they will be unwilling to change their mind; especially if the misteaching is sin-friendly.)When it comes to building a personal narrow Way library, build it with TEACHERS; not TOPICS. If you build based on topics (e.g. holiness; evangelism etc) you could end up with QUANTITY rather than QUALITY, for hundreds or thousands of books have been written on various aspects of the narrow Way; many by sincere but mistaught authors. But if you build based on teachers, you have an inbuilt quality and quantity safeguard. Sometimes, you may be interested in a topic not covered by your creme de la creme teachers; in which case, yes, make an EXCEPTION; but be very very careful to sift the wheat from the chaff in the book you then purchase. Furthermore, if you have built a library of a few dozen books by the best Bible teachers around (David Pawson being one of the very finest), do not keep adding more books just for the sake of it, thereby increasingly diluting and lowering the quality level of your library. Just reread the ones that you have. After all, if you limit your puchases to the very best teachers, their books are worth reading more than once.2) One must be careful to avoid making the classic mistake of George Mueller (and perhaps many,many others): George is on record as saying that when he was a new convert, he spent his time reading books ABOUT the Bible, rather than the Bible ITSELF.3) So-called in-depth 'verse-by-verse' analysis can be a shortcut to WINESKinCARCERATION! (That 'Unlocking the Bible' is a broad-brush OVERVIEW is actually a major POSITIVE!)Without being a sea stack climber myself (!), one assumes that when a climber wants to assess the climbability of something akin to 'The Old Man of Hoy', the first thing they want to do,is stand back and look at the stack from all angles (not too far back though; obviously!) ; in order to assess the overall shape of the rock they want to climb,and how best to tackle it. After that OVERVIEW, they can move closer in, to examine the very surface of the rockface, in order to look for places to step on and grab; in order to plan a pathway to the top.Likewise, the first thing a Bible student needs is an overview from distance; giving them a pencil sketch of the 66 books at hand. Only after doing that is it appropriate (and safe!) to zoom into paragraphs and even sentences. Otherwise, if one starts the other way around (as tragically many seem to do), one can zoom right in on a sentence and form an interpretation that is contrary not only to the overall TENOR of the Bible, but even to the NEIGHBORING sentences that come before and after; John 3:16 and 2 Thessalonians 2:7 being classic cases. ('Unlocking the Bible' is - one might say - an all-angle appraisal of the overall shape of 'Bible Rock,' helping the reader to make it successfully from start to finish - or the bottom to the top!) To put it in a nutshell, if one is to correctly study Holy Scripture, one first needs a PANORAMIC view of the entire Bible, before forming a firm stance on any SPECIFIC passage or sentence.4)TRANSLATION-wise, the NIV is what might be called a halfway-house between a 'ROBOTIC' translation (at one end of the spectrum; and so to speak !), which fails to take due account of the differences in sentence word-ordering of Greek and English; and, a 'PARAPHRASE' translation (at the other end of the spectrum), that is so lax it would be better described as a commentary (furthermore, one in which the translators' errors are - albeit sincerely - sown into the text). The NIV is perhaps the ideal translation for a first read (especially if someone is not normally given to reading). After reading the NIV once or twice, one's palate may be ready for a more literal translation; and personally, I think the NASB and the NKJV are the best two (in spite of NKJV's 2 Thessalonians 2:7 miscapitalization - see below !).There is a pernicious GNAT-straining tragedy among a number of Bible translations; including the NIV, NKJV, NASB and ESV. These translations insist on translating the Greek as 'hate' in Luke '14:26.' 'Hate' is an English word with a connotation that is the very opposite of agape; 'hate' as used in English does NOT convey from Greek what Messiah Jesus actually said. ('Demote' may be a better rendering than 'hate' - for Messiah Jesus is saying He must come first; everyone else, including even one's children, must come second.) Why is using 'hate' so pernicious? Simply because in rendering the Greek as 'hate' I believe it means evangelists are then reluctant to bring outsiders to Messiah's 'terms and conditions' for authentic disciplehood; and instead of making sure responders to the Good News measure up to His YARDSTICK (all 36 inches so to speak) for being His DISCIPLE, many responders (without counting the cost BEFOREHAND, as Messiah Jesus there told outsiders to do) are led to believe they are His 'Christian' based on a one-minute, ONE INCH "Sinner's Prayer" (that's a loss of 35 inches; small wonder so much of the Western BODY is 'Laodicean'). Modern translations really must remove the Luke 14:26-bullet they shot in their foot, and get that passage right; and translate it more along the lines of "If anyone comes to Me, and does not 'demote'/'put Me before' his own father and mother ..."Regarding 'Chapter-and-WORSE-ification' of Holy Scripture (and 'Cherry Tree Bibles'):Chapters and verses in standard English Bibles are uninspired and man-made. Well-intentioned though it was,the 'chapter-and-verse-ification' (CAV; or rather,'chapter-and-WORSE-ification'!) of Holy Scripture, has done serious harm.Yes, CAV can be very handy indeed for locating (or ushering someone to) a sentence or two of Holy Writ; but, when this asundering of God's message is put upon the 'scales of understanding' (so to speak), what has been gained in CONVENIENCE is outweighed by what has been lost in CONTEXT. CAV has facilitated and perpetuated the misunderstanding of a number of sentences ('John 3:16' and '2 Thessalonians 2:7' being classic cases). CAV has turned God's library of books into an orchard of cherry trees. Consequently,those who seek to (albeit unintentionally) shoehorn Holy Writ into a (distorted) framework (whether the framework be Trent, TULIP, PRE-Trib, Wesleyan or whatever else), subjectively stroll from one tree (versified book) to another, cherry picking the verses that 'prove' their CONTEXT-contrary beliefs/pre(and mis)conceptions, while leaving cherries/sentences that show their stance to be false on the chapter-branches! For example, '2 Thessalonians 2:7' has been seriously misunderstood and used as a false support for 'PRE-Tribulation' rapture. In 'verse 7' the NKJV even puts 'He' when it should be 'he.' (They put 'he' in the verse footnote; whereas the uncapitalized word's true home is meant to be within the God-breathed text itself!) The subject of '2 Thessalonians 2:3-7' is the man of lawlessness - from 'verse 3-7,' 'he', 'his' and 'himself' (including 'he' in verse 7),all refer to the man of lawlessness, not to the Lord Jesus. Another example is the uninspired division between 'Acts 18:24-28' and 'Acts 19:1-7,' which has served to obscured the fact that Paul is there remedying the sincere but deficient evangelism of Apollos.Thankfully, the NIV has now brought out a 'Books of the Bible' edition where all man-made chapters, verses and section headings have been removed; with one column of print; and with the Bible books in better order. Do; do get a copy:The Books of the Bible (NIV). Do endeavor to read each of the Bible books in as few sittings as possible; the Bible is a PIZZA to be wholeheartedly relished and devoured, not a spoon of vile medicine to be reluctantly taken! The very first 'pizza-reading' is to - in effect - break up God-breathed soil; subsequent pizza-readings will harvest more and more information (and the primary themes of the God-breathed 'tapestry' will become increasingly clear). With CAV removed, you will find it easier to place supremacy where it belongs (in the hands of CONTEXT!); not only that, but it is also pyscologically much easier to study Holy Scripture in chunkier portions (so to speak).*****To conclude the general points, is it not sad that some disciples feel they have to go to a 'Seminary' to get WEIGHTY teaching? (And what does that say about the teaching they had in their congregation?) It is actually the task of the local congregation's group of elders to make sure the congregation itself is steeped in sound doctrine (indeed, the ability to provide quality teaching is a prerequisite for elderhood; see Titus); each congregation should be a 'School of Tyrannus.' Furthermore, the Bible is a Holy Scripture FACULTY in itself; beginning with Moses, then Joshua,right through to Jude and John; THE Teacher of course being the Carpenter who made the mount (before teaching on it untold years later): Messiah Jesus. Just think about a faculty member or two: Peter, a rugged, rustic fisherman who physically walked with the Man who is God; and Paul, the unsurpassed Second Covenant Bible teacher; indeed, the faculty members are actually the very individuals through whom came the God-breathed TRUTH (they actually PENNED PURE sound doctrine; how's THAT for a 'Seminary!').Now for 'Unlocking the Bible':David Pawson is a teacher of clarity and weight; and yet, he has thankfully chosen to deliberately write for the benefit of "Mom 'n' Pop Blue-Collar" (i.e. for ordinary folk who want plain, understandable and practical information; not for those who mistake diplomas and big words for serious competence). This book is a story in itself, a story he relates in the introduction: what first began as a set of talks given to encourage disciples to get into their Bibles (at the request of various congregation leaders), has now been transcribed into a book, and basically morphed into a volume of such importance that David now regards it as his very 'legacy' to the Body.It was originally put together (in spoken form) around 20 years ago; since that day (and now in his eighties), he has so far clocked up over 60 years of Bible study. In recent years, his messages have got sharper and sharper; and his Bible knowledge keeps growing from year to year. As a consequence of a further 20 years or so of study, I think David would now slightly tweak what he said back then about the book of John. (In particularly, John 3; see his excellent book of recent yearsIS JOHN 3:16 THE GOSPEL?; indeed, with regard to British and American Bible-readers, this is one of the most important books they could ever read outside of Holy Scripture itself).In recent years it has become clear to David that one of the very best ways of understanding the Bible is to use what might be called 'God's Bible FRAMEWORK/BONEWORK' (not another distorted one from man!). And by that I mean God's COVENANTS with mankind: Noahic, Abrahamic, Mosiac, Davidic and Messianic. If you look (for instance) at the books of the prophets, you will note God keeps making Covenant-based remarks time and time again. Perhaps one might say those Five Covenants offer the very best vantage point for seeing the Bible-FOREST despite all the TREES; for properly understanding God's Word; it is an EXTREMELY helpful Bible X-Ray. David has now brought out an X-Ray book on this Bible BONEWORK:By God, I Will. For a highly informative and complementary read on the Covenants, do get yourself a copy of Michael L Brown'sOur Hands Are Stained with Bloodand also David's book 'Defending Christian Zionism.'David considers 'Unlocking the Bible' andThe Normal Christian Birthto be his two most important books. In order that the Bride be prepared for the 42 month warfare of the beast, 'When Jesus Returns' is another tremendously important piece of writing. (Value-wise, 'Unlocking the Bible' is quite a deal: instead of paying a higher price for a few hundred pages penned by someone who may be TICKLING instead of TEACHING, for under $10 you get yourself an ebook of over a 1,000 pages from one of the finest teachers since the apostles.)The first overview book I read on the Bible was written by someone deceived by PRE-Trib rapture; it was an encounter with teaching that was READ INTO Scripture, not READ FROM. (I am not questioning the writer's sincerity and dedication to Jesus.) David Pawson is one of the finest Bible teachers the living God has ever given. Some would tell you to use 'Unlocking the Bible' as a 'reference book' (i.e. that before reading, say, Deuteronomy, you should read David's chapter on Deuteronomy); and yes, whilst doing so is no bad thing, I personally believe that in the FIRST INSTANCE, David's entire book should be read right through from start to finish. (Although it is well over 1,000 pages, it is a read that is easy-going and yet very informative at the same time; quite a combination.) Noting what I have said (about David's chapter on John, and the Second Covenant in general), you can search high and low from San Diego to Seattle, and Boston to Miami if you must, but you are unlikely to find a better narrow Way OVERVIEW than the one provided by 'Unlocking the Bible'; period.**********A well-rounded, WEIGHTY (outside the box/wineskin) understanding of the narrow Way comes from OBJECTIVE personal study of Holy Scripture; outside of those INSPIRED words, some books (like bricks) collectively serve to build a fallible but robust defence against some of the (sincere or insincere) SUBJECTIVE misconceptions that have arisen over the last 1900 years. Everything written in that collection (indeed in any book about the narrow Way) must be tested by Holy Scripture, by God's TRUTH - not men's (well-intentioned, but) UNINSPIRED wineskins; above all, by the words of the One Teacher - Messiah Jesus (Matthew 23:8). One side of the INSPIRED Bible coin (so to speak) can lead to legalism or license - it takes BOTH sides of the TRUTH to properly nourish and equip a Second Covenant soldier of Messiah Jesus. This OVERVIEW book is one of the collection.(The Bible coin: Matthew 4:5-6/Matthew 4:7; Galatians 3:15-18/Hebrews 8:8; John 3:17/Acts 10:42; John 3:16/Luke 13:3; Mark 8:12/Hebrews 2:4; John 6:37/Luke 14:26; Matthew 11: 30/Luke 14:25-35; Acts 2:38/Acts 19:2; 1 Corinthians 14:18,26-33/1 Corinthians 14:19,40; Titus 3:5/Ephesians 2:10; John 1:17/Matthew 28:20; Matthew 7:1-5/1 Corinthians 5:9-13; John 10:11/John 12:24; John 10:10/1 Corinthians 5:14-15; Matthew 25:31-46/Revelation 20:1-10; 1 Thessalonians 1:10/Revelation 6:9-11; 1 John 1:6-9/Hebrews 10:26-31; Romans 8:11/John 15:6; Romans 8:30/Romans 11:11,19-22; 1 John 4:18/1 Peter 1:17 - and so on.)Other books offering outside-the-box/wineskin nourishment:Not as Bad as the Truth: Memoirs of an Unorthodox EvangelicalThe autobiography of David Pawson. At the moment, this is not in ebook form; furthermore, Amazon (again, at the moment) do not keep a stock of it themselves. That said, you CAN get a copy VIA Amazon. Getting yourself a copy is very worthwhile indeed; it is the ideal starting point for getting to know the teacher behind the STELLAR teaching. Even if you do not get the book, do at the least, read the Amazon customer reviews (it will give you a sense of just how exceptional David really is.)Pagan Christianity?: Exploring the Roots of Our Church PracticesThis is a strong (and centuries overdue!) denunciation of the Building-Pulpit-Pew Model; including the (albeit sincere but) unscriptural (and micro-papal) role of the Evangelical "pastor" (as well as the Catholic/Anglican "priest"; and even the Messianic "rabbi"). Disciples who have a Pastor King "OVER" them, and who "love to have it so," may well detest the book (1 Samuel 8:19-29; Jeremiah 5:31); to them it could be a monstrous gadfly; chapter after chapter may be unbearably pungent. (There are no prizes for guessing how puffed-up and SELF-interested Pastor Kings will feel about the book; and perhaps even some itinerant teachers who rely upon PKs, for invites to speak.) But as for disciples who want to put SOLA Scriptura into practice (come what may!); who do not want to spend their years attending COUNTERPRODUCTIVE Sunday "services" that are based on ignorance and without a foundation (1 Corinthians 14:37-38; Luke 6:49); and who instead want to gather according to Yeshua's commandments (1 Corinthians 14:26-38) - well, for them, this book is a well-written signpost back toward God-breathed ekklesiology.In Six DaysAccording to God, He made the earth in six days; and He should know. In this tremendously informative book, fifty scientists discuss F.A.I.TH: Fossils; Amino Acids; Irreducibility; and Thermo-D(y)NA-mics. Do get yourself a copy. (In 'Unlocking the Bible' David mentions the various views on Creation; without getting dogmatic.) With 'In Six Days' you have yourself a set of highly qualified scientists who nail their colors to the Young Earth mast; while I believe this is no issue to divide over,I do believe their Young Earth view is a scripture-honoring stance.)Back To JerusalemOutside of the Holy Scriptures themselves, 'Back to Jerusalem' is one of the FINEST POSSIBLE additions to a Western disciple's personal library - PERIOD! Western disciples would benefit from reading it every once in a while (not just once); for it serves as a kind of holiness-ometer (and lifestyle GOAD): to those who have been following the Son and keeping His commands, this book will be a beautiful account of their Eastern brothers and sisters in Messiah; to those who have been wallowing in sin and keeping up with the Joneses, it may be something of a King Kong gadfly.**********And finally:SODIAL- BLACK LCD CLIP 4GB MP3 FLASH MEMORY PLAYERIf you have not got an MP3 Player (or smartphone) on which to hear David's free audio teaching while out 'n' about, do get this low-cost one. I consider his online teaching library to be a '2K7' edification BANQUET; see 2 Kings 7 (especially verse 9). David's talks serve as an excellent appetizer for his books. To find his free, clear and weighty teaching online,just type 'David Pawson teaching library' into a search engine.**********Sharpen your ACTS" (SYA) is an Amazon Listmania list I've put together. It is basically an attempt to select a few books of exceptional importance, so that any disciples who are not prolific book readers, can get themselves a small Narrow Way library, and yet one that gives first class information (including vaccine against some of the most pernicious toxins permeating the Western contingent of the Bride).To find the SYA list, click on my name here on Amazon; then click on "Listmania Lists." Nearly all of the SYA books are available in ebook form, so free samples can be downloaded to your Kindle; or, onto any gadget on which you have installed a free Kindle App (such as your smartphone; your tablet; or your PC). Do go see the list; do get free samples; do don a napkin.Take note please - these are the views of an unregenerate Gentile.
5 Thank you!
5 Simply put, I would say this is the best companion book for studying the Bible I have found yet.  For the beginner to intermediate this will multiply your enjoyment as you study the Bible.  David Pawson takes you through the Bible like a skilled historian.  He highlights relevent info and places every book in its context to help with understanding.  Personally, when I study this book is my first step.  Before I open a commentary I go through this book and it helps put the book I am studying in the larger context of the who of Scripture.  Enjoy!
5 It's important to have a book like this. I'd also recommend Chuck Missler's Learn the Bible in 24 hours and also these great Christian books:Godstone - The Kairos BoxesChosen Ones (Aedyn Chronicles, The)
3 This is a very basic introduction to the Bible. The style and feel are more "pop devotional" than academic or reference (as far as the level of depth and scholarship), but that is not the book's aim anyhow. The theme is more conversational, with quaint stories and illustrations not always extremely relavant to the text dotting the pages.For example, the chapter on Isaiah opens with well-known phrases and verses that have come from Isaiah that the reader might not have been aware of and a story about a man who didn't like Shakespeare because he thought Shakespeare had borrowed many common phrases, not knowing Shakespeare was in fact the author of them. I just see this as unnecessary to serious study. FOR A BEGINNER, maybe. BUT then again maybe not. Is this what you would really want as the foundation for a new believer? Perhaps something more solid and thoroughly orthodox would be better than a light overview made up of odd "Guiness Book of World Records" or "World Almanac" style tidbits and anecdotes.Pawson's treatment of Romans also sorely missed the mark. He spends several pages trying to determine the motivation for the letter, ending on a conclusion that is neither the historically Christian position nor faithful to the text itself, and as for the actual commentary, it just seemed lacking on the heart of what Paul teaches in Romans. His view on chapters 9-11 seem to indicate he is a pre-mill dispensational believer, which is fine in its own right, but perhaps he should have included other interpretations as he did with the intro (perhaps highlight the fact Paul is emphasizing God's sovereignty in the matter of salvation and all of life itself, instead of merely focusing on Israel through whom Paul is illustrating his broader theme).All in all, I give it a 3 because it is big book for a low price, but even then a 3 may be to generous. The font is big and the pages are small, so there probably isn't as much info here as it looks. And because it is a 1300 page paperback, its construction has a cheap feel to it that doesn't look like it will endure much sustained use.If you want a one volume commentary/overview of the Bible, consider getting "Explore the Book" by J. Sidlow Baxter, New International Bible Commentary by F.F. Bruce, or New Bible Commentary edited by D.A. Carson.
5 This is wonderful piece of work from David Pawson!Recommended way of reading: Read one book from Bible (say starting from Genesis) Read the explanation from this book, and then read the same book from Bible again!Your understanding of the word will be enriched!Please read this is openness and allow the Word of God (Bible) to minister you!
5 David Pawson's ability to explain the purposes and significance of each book of the bible is an amazing gift.  It is apparent he has divine inspiration.  From the opening discussion of the book of Genesis through the detailed review of Revelation, David Pawson brings the books into focus through modern day references and inspirational stories.  His teaching has created a deeper, more intensive love for God's Word in my heart ~ I go back to this book time and time again for fresh inspiration.I recommend this book to every serious bible student.
5 This is a great book for understanding the Bible.  The author adds a lot of information in a easy way to understand the Bible,  I would highly recommend this book if you want a good overall view of the Bible.
3 I'm quite a sucker for old-fashioned love stories (having written one myself, as yet unpublished) but it's hard to find good ones. Of course there are mushy and formulaic romance novels galore but they are not what I'm talking about.As Carol Shields herself writes here, "Love is not, anywhere, taken seriously. It's not respected. It's the one thing that everyone in the world wants but for some reason people are obliged to pretend that love is trifling and foolish. Work is important. Living arrangements are important. Wars and good sex and race relations and the environment are important, and so are health and fitness. Even minor shifts of faith or political intention are given a weight that is not accorded love. We turn our heads and pretend it's not there, the thunderous passions that enter a life and alter its course. Love belongs in an amateur operetta, on the inside of a jokey greeting card or in the annals of an old-fashioned poetry society. Moon and June and spoon and soon ... It's womanish, it's embarrassing, something jeer at, something for jerks."That's very well put.So to the story of Tom and Fay in Winnipeg, Canada, drifting through unsuccessful love affairs and marriages until fate makes their paths cross. Both are appealing and I believed in the passion that seizes them. I was a little less happy with the plot machinations. Of course, Shields follows the ancient formula of boy meets girl, boy parts from girl, boy and girl get back together. But she moves her characters around a bit like chessman -- the plot feels a little clunky -- you can  see all the moving parts a bit too much. The minor characters in this book don't shine very much -- another weakness.However, I have to applaud this novel. I read it on a plane and it kept my interest across the Atlantic. Bravo for a serious attempt to tackle love in an adult and intelligent way.
5 Somehow I had missed this book. It did not dissapoint. Shields is (sadly, was) a wonderful writer who paints amazing word pictures and accurately captures emotions. Loved every minute of this book.
2 I was invited to read a free copy of this book, in exchange for a review, via NetGalley. I've read Shields before and wasn't overly fond of The Stone Diaries. This book confirmed what I previously thought.The prose is wonderfully written and I enjoy how Shields delivers details. What I don't like is the plot. The first 150-pages, nothing more than character development, bored me senseless and, if I hadn't been asked for a review, I would've given up. The two love interests finally meet on page 167. Then, just as the story begins, the book ends.Ironically, the best review for this book is a quote lifted from the book itself: &#34;Just a love story, people say about a book they happen to be reading, to be caught reading.&#34;
5 A friend told me that this book was disappointing to her in comparison to &quot;The Stone Diaries&quot; - I find this hard to imagine, I loved the story, the characters, the setting, the realness and can hardly wait to read more of Shield's books.  The job choices for the characters, mermaid researcher and dj, made a charming combination, not your normal 9 - 5 world!
3 Have never bought this author before.  It was a fairly good story, but a little too drawn out for me.BJ of NJ
4 Tom Avery enjoys women to excess.First, there is the abundance of mothers who tended to his care. Twenty-seven, to be exact. Oh, sure, only one actually gave birth to him, but he is a true product of getting raised by a village. Prior to turning forty, he went through three wives. Ever the optimist, he knows there will be a fourth.Fellow Winnipegian Fay McLeod isn&#8217;t even sure she knows how to love, much less do so in such a hyperbolic state as Tom. What she does know, most resolutely, is that the man she has dated and lived with and been partnered to for five years &#8211; with whom she owns a condo &#8211; is not someone she wants to live with any longer. Their relationship has run its course, and Fay wants to end it.Despite having quite a few friends in common, Tom and Fay have not met. He, a midnight disc jockey, frequents singles meetings, ostensibly because he knows his judgment in selecting the future Mrs. Tom needs some tweaking, but actually as a way to meet women. She is a folklorist who specializes in studying mermaids. They may know the same people, but their paths do not cross.But of course they eventually do. Tom is immediately smitten and is determined to express his love and passion. Fay, completely unaccustomed to such a quick rush of intense feelings, is relieved to be headed to Europe for research; she wants to take advantage of this time to make sense of how she feels. When she receives a passionate love letter from Tom, she wonders if she loves him too.Fay eventually returns home, and she and Tom begin to discover, appraise, create, and revise their relationship. Theirs truly is a case of opposites attracting, and it frightens Fay, much more than it does Tom. After all, he&#8217;s already had three wives and nearly thirty mothers. He greedily and eagerly embraces the optimism of love, whereas Fay&#8217;s reticence and fear convince her that love &#8211; whatever that may be &#8211; is temporal at best. Is she practical or fatalistic? Is Tom naive or addicted to the rush?Carol Shields approaches these questions by making us slowly fall in love with Tom and Fay. He&#8217;s like an overgrown puppy, so full of enthusiasm and affection that you can see why he&#8217;s maintained good relationships with his exes (for the most part). His feelings for Fay are genuine and not at all something he wishes to hide or tamper down. It&#8217;s love! Real love! So what&#8217;s life all about if not feeling love and sharing love and giving love and making love? Fay would respond that life is for living in moderation, and where love is concerned, one must approach with skepticism and realism. They call it &#8220;falling&#8221; in love for a reason, Fay believes, because eventually you hit the ground and it all ends. She is more difficult to like than Tom, but yet her temperance is appealing. We understand her, even though we wish we were more enthusiastic like Tom.The Republic of Love, then, is not a dictatorship. It&#8217;s a democracy, wherein each of us lives with our own definitions, constructs, and appreciations of love, where we are free to express and experience our feelings, even when others don&#8217;t share them. Can Fay and Tom find their way together? Can he soothe her fears while she moderates his exuberance?Read and find out. You won&#8217;t regret it.
2 I did not particularly care for this book and I have liked some of Carol Shields other books particularly unless. The book has love at first sight-I think that is corny and I expected more of Carol Shields.While the book has some humor, there is not much plot and what plot there is, is highly predictable.  It takes 150 pages into the book for the love story to start.There are some short sketches that are funny but I thought the book lacked focus.
4 The writing is quite highbrow, full of five dollar words and complicated sentences. This does make a rather nice change from all of the teen fiction I have been reading. For the most part, I really loved her writing style. Every so often, a particular sentence would strike me as a bit over the top, as though big words had been used solely for the sake of using big words.The narrative of the story moves along at a good pace, especially through the first half of the book. The format of the story, which follows the two main characters in alternating chapters, propels the reader forward, curious to discover how and when they will actually meet. I really loved the thought-provoking ideas about love, serendipity, marriage and being single that are woven throughout this novel. The theme of the interconnectedness of people's lives and the degrees of separation was particularly fascinating. It reminded me a lot of a slightly darker and more literary version of When Harry Met Sally, only not the plot with Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan. It called to mind the little insert stories about how people met.I highly recommend this to literary fiction fans. For those who like easy reads, not so much. This is an excellent novel!
2 Irrelevant characters, irrelevant descriptions of clothing, mundane activities, and boatloads of furniture--they're all here bloating a homely, dull little story.
4 While this was not the best book I have read by Carol Shields, it was an excellent novel, with very normal everyday characters, and a meandering but also very realistic plot.  There were some superbly written passages, which may be better in their individual parts than the book was as a whole. As always Shields presented an amazing sense of location and historical context.
4 "As a baby, Tom Avery had twenty-seven mothers.  So he says.  That was almost forty years ago."  As opening paragraphs go, if this one doesn't make you want to read on, then nothing will.  I started reading this in bed one Sunday morning and didn't get up until it was finished.Fay McLeod wakes up one morning knowing she no longer loves the man in the bed beside her, with whom she has lived for five years.  Truth be known, he no longer loves her, either; their relationship had just slipped into complacency and joint commitments.  But alone, she finds she really is just one half of an incomplete couple.  Where does one find love?  How does one remain in love?  After all, as the title suggests, it's everyone's right to experience love.Fay is close to her family; her parents, brother, his family, and her sister.  She has many friends, mainly through her absorbing work as a folklorist with a special interest in mermaids.  Her work links her to the past, and to fantasy - could she be using that to escape reality?Before reaching forty, Tom Avery has been divorced three times.  He hadn't chosen partners very wisely, but at least he's remained friendly with two of his ex-wives and they are part of his extensive social circle.  Without actually vowing to never marry again, he knows he isn't good marriage material, and spends most Friday nights attending singles meetings, supposedly to learn new skills, but in reality to check out availability of potential partners. He also concentrates his energies on friends, associates and his work as the popular host of a midnight to dawn radio program.Considering his circle, and Fay's circle contained so many people in common, it was surprising they'd never met.  However, a chance encounter at the birthday party of Fay's nephew where he'd come to collect his godson and she'd come to deliver a present on the eve of a European study tour, leads to a strong mutual attraction.  So strong, that after only a walk home (they lived across the street from each other) in the company of an eight year old boy, Tom tracks down her address in Europe and professes his love, a madly passionate airletter posted before allowing himself to think better of it.What is love?  In this book, Carole Shields has used none of the artifice apparent in later novels; it's just a beautifully written exploration of love, finding it, keeping it, regaining it and allowing yourself to yield to it.  Around Tom and Fay, finely developed secondary characters go though their own love crises - the path of love is hardly ever smooth.  It is a hopeful, heart-warming and satisfying novel.  Plus you find out quite a lot about Winnepeg, mermaids and late-night radio.Several years ago, an elderly friend recommended Carol Shields.  Recently I started with "Larry's Party", which announced it was by the author of "The Stone Diaries", which in turn proclaimed to be by the author of "The Republic of Love".  Since these books seem to be their own best recommendations, I'm now going to take the advice of "The Republic of Love" and look even further back into her list for "Swann" and "The Orange Fish".
4 This is a story to root for! I could feel myself trying to tell the main characters things I thought they needed to know! I give it four stars because sometimes the story didn't &#34;flow&#34; for me.
5 Carol Shields&#8217; The Republic of Love is a beautifully written examination of that most desired, ecstatic, disappointing, confusing, inexplicable, wonderful, bizarre and devastating experience &#8211; romantic love.Tom Avery is a 40 year old man who has recently failed at his third marriage. He is a successful night-time DJ on a Winnipeg Radio Station whose audience is often the lovelorn, the lonely, and he smooths the night with chat and music, whilst &#8216;in real&#8217; his life is rather falling apart. He still yearns to meet &#8216;the one&#8217;Fay McLeod is 35, and is about to end her relationship with a man she no longer loves, with whom she has been living for 3 years. She has never married, but has a history of relationships with perfectly credible partners, but she can&#8217;t quite commit. She yearns to meet &#8216;the one&#8217;. She is a folklorist in Winnipeg; her speciality is mermaids &#8211; mythical creatures who lured the unwary to their deaths by drowning through their seductive siren songs, sending the listener mad. A fairly potent love metaphor.We know, as we follow Tom and Fay in alternate chapters, for almost half the book, that at some point they are going to meet and we expect the trajectory of a romance.However, forget moons, Junes, clich&eacute;s, as there are many ways in which this most enduring of fiction subject matter &#8216;the love story&#8217; may play out. Particularly when the essence of love is written about by such a warm, tenderly but objectively clear and unsentimental writer as Shields. A writer who can slyly, wryly, - and let&#8217;s face it, even truthfully say the following, as expressed by one of her two central characters:&#8216;&#8230;.love is not, anywhere, taken seriously. It&#8217;s not respected. It&#8217;s the one thing in the world everyone wants&#8230;..but for some reason people are obliged to pretend that love is trifling and foolish.Work is important. Living arrangements are important&#8230;&#8230;Even minor shifts of faith or political intention are given a weight that is not accorded love. We turn our heads and pretend it&#8217;s not there, the thunderous passions that enter a life and alter its course. Love belongs in an amateur operetta, on the inside of a jokey greeting card&#8230;&#8230;.It&#8217;s possible to speak ironically about romance, but no adult with any sense talks about love&#8217;s richness and transcendence, that it actually happens, that it&#8217;s happening right now, in the last years of our long, hard, lean, bitter and promiscuous century&#8217;In this book (originally published in 1997) Shield&#8217;s other central motif is the interconnectedness of each to other, particularly in a moderately small city &#8211; so though Tom and Fay have actually been living in the same area of the city for some years, they have never met. On a &#8216;Six Degrees of Separation&#8217; map they have several possible routes of finally meeting &#8211; Shields draws out tangled, myriad points of connection between different groups and subgroups of people in the city. So Winnipeg itself is a major player in her storyThis was so well crafted; her characters (all) individual, rounded, real. It&#8217;s absolutely obvious what the plot is, that is predictable &#8211; satisfyingly so, but it is the precision of the journey, Shields&#8217; warmth, humour and accuracy, her ordinary but unique characters, and her careful examination of the day to day mystery of love itself, made this a hugely enjoyable read.And, &#8230;to the title &#8211; Kingdoms imply rank and status, Republics (in theory) RepResent the Will of The People. The Republic is in theory something freely chosen and willed by the majority. However, as we know, Republics may be forced upon the populace, the power may not be vested in the people. Republics may come into being through force and violence, and the people have been unwillingly subdued and subjugated. Shields has given us a title which contains many meanings and layers, some of them contradictory, with meanings both overt and covertI was delighted to be offered this as an ARC by Open Road Media, who continue to produce excellent ebook versions of fine writing originally published within the last 50 years. I generally find myself fully appreciating the chance to re-read gems from recent literature, or discover fine writing which passed me by.
4 I had a little trouble getting into this because of the staccato style, but I'm glad I stuck with it. The plot is thin, but the characterizations are marvelous. Whether it's the two main characters or the minor figures who just make cameos, Shield is amazing in her depictions. You really feel you know these people and you understand why they do what they do. Plus there are wonderful insights throughout on people and emotions (especially love) and the descriptions of Winnepeg make me feel like I grew up there.
5 I enjoyed the flow of words. Occasionally the author got a little technical and it was difficult reading. I had seen and enjoyed the movie made from this book. The movie followed the author's main idea with a few additions. The movie is dedicated to the author. The details of the book added to the plot with which I was very familiar. When I saw this book was available I felt as if I had been given a wonderful gift and I was not at all disappointed as I read.
4 This book was well-written and diverting. I was drawn to keep reading it, even when I didn't feel as engaged with the story or the characters as I would have liked. In the end, it was a simple love story, with predictable plot points and no real surprises. The main characters are quirky, not overly so, but just quirky enough in an ordinary-folks kind of way. It felt to me like there were too many minor characters in the novel, which I suppose was in keeping with one of its themes, the idea of Winnipeg being a "small world" where everyone is connected to everyone else in some way or another. But there were certain characters, such as Faye's older female friend named Onion, who I would have liked to read more about, while others, such as Faye's sister Bibbi's live-in boyfriend, who could have been omitted entirely without causing even a ripple in the plot.I have read several other novels by Carol Shields before, as well as a huge volume of her collected stories, and I found The Republic of Love to be not as good as The Stone Diaries or Larry's Party. I may dip back into those two novels and see whether I like them as much as I did when I first read them, years ago. Maybe my tastes have changed in the meantime. But if you haven't read anything by Shields before, I'd suggest reading one of those two books of hers first.
5 This author was a master of her art and all of her books are a joy to read. I also loved &#34;Unless.&#34;
4 Republics do not have kings or queens, nor princes or princesses, so, we must assume, fairytales are out. Winnipeg is not exactly a republic, and, at least in terms of their love lives, two residents of the city, Fay and Tom, seem to inhabit a world where fairytales are inconceivable. But that place might not be Winnipeg: it might be closer in to themselves.Despite - or perhaps because of - having had a multitude of mothers, Tom has been married three times, each attempt turning success into apparent and mildly painful failure, with or sometimes without associated acrimony. For her part, Fay, at thirty-five, has had several relationships of varied length, but none has led to wedding bells, a fact that seems to trouble her, sometimes.Tom is a radio presenter. He hosts one of those late night phone-ins aimed at insomniacs, but usually attracting the opinionated. His mood, his history, his takes on where life has taken him clearly influence his style. Rises or dips in his personal life are immediately apparent, communicated without trying. But do not assume that anything offers even influence to what the contributors say. Rest assured, they will offer precisely what they want, perhaps precisely what they have been fed, if only because they are all as self-absorbed as everyone else.Fay works more regular hours. She is an ethnologist and works in a folklore centre. She is heavily into mermaids, and perhaps they are also into her. She researches the mermaid myth, catalogues sightings, interviews people who have seem them, travels the world giving papers on our social and psychological need to invent these creatures. Mermaids, though overtly sexual and obviously female, are eventually sexless, unless they have exaggerated tails. They are both alluring and inviting, but, being half fish, they are cold-blooded and cold. They tempt, but cannot satisfy.Obviously Tom and Fay are going to meet. They, along with their accumulated baggage, join forces and, as a consequence, begin to see life differently. But each is still influenced by relatives, acquaintances, ex-partners, ex-in-laws, new partners, parents and anyone else who might have an opinion. They all count. They all influence, especially when stiffness of apparent resolve can be easily bent by contradiction, shock or surprise. And so Fay and Tom's relationship develops to what Carol Shields deems it should become. Throughout The Republic Of Love is beautifully written. Carol Shields's prose is often witty, elegant, telling, funny, incisive or provocative all in one. A single sentence can turn on itself to frighten or mock its own beginning.This is a book worth reading for its style alone. But it offers more than elegance of expression. These characters have all the confused confident complexity, the undirected and variable resolve we would expect from non-ideological adults in the last decade of the twentieth century. It would be interesting to revisit them twenty years on to see where they are now, to know if anything might have lasted. In The Republic Of Love they certainly come to life.
4 if you've ever known love at first sight, then this author brings back all the magic of the impulses that invade your every moment when it happens to you.  Tom and Fay have already had some experience with romantic relationships:  he has had three marriages,  She has had three long term live-ins.  He seems to commit too easily, she is wary of commitment.Tom is a late night Talk show host,  Fay an authority on mermaids.  Not too much in common you might think, but their lives are interwoven with family and friends, who manage to put a spoke in the wheel as they hurry to the altar.This book is more than a love story.  Full of charm and wit and characters you'll enjoy knowing.It's one of those books I will read again when I need a boost.  My first experience of Carol Shields but not my last.
3 THE REPUBLIC OF LOVE is a pleasant diversion by the author of the Pulitzer Prize winning &quot;The Stone Diaries.&quot;  While this book is an enjoyable read, those who are expecting the quality of the latter may be disappointed.  While the book contains Carol Shields' graceful and eloquent prose typical of all of her books, the plot is somewhat thin and superficial.  The characters are well developed in the first part of the book and the pace is leisurely until the last few chapters.  At that point, the plot is wrapped up so quickly it was as if the author decided that she had something better to do and needed to get this book out of the way.By usual standards, the book is certainly nicely done, however it pales in comparison to Ms. Shields' later works.
5 Carol Shields is able to give a poignant and humorous incite into relationships. Each sentence is crafted with the perfect descriptions and metaphors. She is an author and artist.
4 I enjoyed the story, but at times i felt like i was back in junior high. . . Looking up the definitions of words.  Sometimes not often used words are used for clarity of meaning, expressions for which other words, simpler words simply will not suffice.  In this novel i frequently felt words were being used to impress rather than clarify.
5 I highly recommend this book!  Very interesting read and very interesting becoming &#34;involved&#34; in the jockey world.  I have recommended this book to several of my friends
5 I resisted reading "Seabiscuit" until just recently.  I thought, "Who wants to read a book about a horse?"Then I read "Unbroken" and was blown away.  I then concluded I would read anything about anything by this author and be rewarded -- she is so talented.  She could write a book on the accumulation of dust and I would read it.Ranking the two books -- I would give "Unbroken" a 10 out of 10 score and "Seabiscuit" 9.9999999 out of 10.  My father-in-law was in a B-24 over Europe during WWII when it was shot down and he became a German POW.  So all of the info about B-24s and POWs gave "Unbroken" a tiny edge for me.
5 I read this book a few years ago and it stays in my mind as having given many insights about American culture. It was my book club's choice, not a book I would have chosen myself, as I had little interest in horse-racing. However, this book became compelling for several reasons - the historical view of the Great Depression and years that followed which comes from it's many fascinating and new (to me) details; the thoroughness in portraying the lives of the horses, the jockeys, and others who were a part of the story; and the full-bodied immersion into the ambiance of the times. I find myself applying it's insights from the Great Depression years to our own era of extraordinarily big gaps between the very wealthiest Americans and the rest of the country. I became very involved with this suspenseful book, read it so quickly - as if "racing" - and have been a faster reader ever since!
5 As I said in my review of Funny Cide, I love horses.  It's the horse that brought me to this book.  It's the horse that enthralled me.  But what I came away with after all is said and done, is a glowing respect for the writer.  Under circumstances I can barely credit, Hillenbrand wrote something luminous, something far beyond a book about a horse and the men who followed him into history.  Hillenbrand is an artist.  The book is a product of her supreme artistry and is nothing short of honest-to-god literature.  Here's to it lasting as long as all good books last...as long as human culture lasts.These days of publishing conglomerates making a quick buck from the topical or the briefly celebrated or "how-to" books---or those odious Rapture travesties---writing like this is thin on the ground.  When I see an example, I become a bit like Don Quixote...I become a crusader.  Hoeg'sSmilla's Sense of Snow, Longfellow'sThe Secret Magdalene: A Novel, Martel'sLife of Pi, Atwood'sAlias Grace: A Novel.  Hillenbrand's "Seabiscuit."  I can't help myself.  I shout out their names 'til I'm hoarse.  (Hoarse.  Horse.  I knew I'd get back to horses.)
5 Riveting, engrossing read.  You won't want to put it down.  It's a bit slow at first before Seabiscuit comes on the scene, but the story of Charles Howard, the owner, Tom Smith, the trainer, and Red Pollard, the rider, is remarkable.  They are all incredible characters in American history.  You will not only come away from the book with a wonderful knowledge of horse racing, weight handicaps, the awesome athleticism of both horses and jockeys, but you will also understand the Great Depression better, the growth of the auto industry, the emergence of the West as a region.  Plus, you might fall in love with Seabiscuit.  He's a lazy, knobby-kneed horse that stole the heart of the nation, and it's easy to see why.  I couldn't get enough; I just wanted to know more.  And it was beautifully written.  There were parts I just wanted to read aloud.  As the competition between War Admiral and Seabiscuit heats up, it is impossible to put the book down.  I wish I could read this book again for the first time.
5 This is an extraordinary story every step of the way. The emotional highs and lows that the characters go through (even the horse) are so dramatic that it almost seems like fiction.One of the most fascinating things about the book is that while the story of Seabiscuit and his handlers zips along in the foreground, hovering over the whole tale is a brilliant evocation of the 1930s Depression. The rich and the poor, the hopeful and the despairing, movie stars and neighborhood priests all get a turn onstage in this story.Hillenbrand's description of the racetrack-driven rise of Tiajuana is riveting; she suggests the importance of radio to a weary public; the sports writers of the time live vividly in the background of Seabiscuit's story.  In Seabiscuit the texture of American life in the 30s and the spirit of its people provides a setting as compelling as the main narrative.All this is in addition to some of the most breath-taking descriptions of horse races ever written. I was literally bouncing up and down in my chair and making little anguished squeaks while reading about the race that marks the climax of the book!Its an extraordinary acheivement and may very well bring back the excitement and interest in thoroughbred racing that once made horses like Seabiscuit, Man-o-War, and War Admiral genuine American heroes.
5 Laura Hillenbrand style puts you in the unique position of being there with the characters in her book.  Undoubtably one of my favorite authors.  The movie did not do justice to her wonderful portrayal of the horse race business.  The hard life of the jockeys and the attention paid to training the horses was eye opening.
5 If you're a racing fan read this book. If you're not a racing fan read this book.
5 After having read Unbroken, also by Hillenbrand, I found Seabiscuit not as good--a bit tedious at times but a bit spell-bounding at times. You have to acknowledge Hillenbrand for her prodigious research for this book, which started out as a query to American Heritage for a magazine story on a horse named Seabiscuit.I'm a sports fan, though only the most superficial horse-racing fan. What astonished me most about the information in this book is how corrupt and nasty and political the sport of horse racing was in the 1930s--and that was after the earlier "corruption" was supposedly cleaned up. Jockeys were treated like chattel and traded for saddles. They often slept in stalls next to their mounts. The elite owners of highly successful racehorses were always trying to trick each other or stand each other up or insult each other in some way, like a Mr. Riddle refusing to enter War Admiral (son of Man O' War) into a race against Seabiscuit, because he was afraid Seabiscuit would beat him, which he did. Seabiscuit's owner had to go through all kinds of machinations to finally set up the race.Also, things like jockeys whipping each other during a race or grabbing each other's saddle blankets or purposely committing all kinds of other fouls, made me feel that the sport was much like Wrestlemania, with outlandish stunts and nasty exchanges and almost no regulation. And the violence inherent in setting these 1,000-pound animals loose against each other on a narrow track is harrowing, and the deaths and maimings of jockeys just because of the nature of the sport was sobering.Beyond that, however, the story becomes more and more compelling as the book progresses. Hillenbrand brings out more personality in Seabiscuit than I thought was possible for a horse to have, and it sounds convincing. The sad case of Red Pollard, the crippled, half-blind, penniless jockey who rode Seabiscuit to many victories, is tragic, especially when he resorts to alcohol to ease the pain from all his lifetime track injuries. The sudden death during a race of George Woolf, who sometimes rode Seabiscuit, is also tragic, because we feel we have gotten to know Woolf so well. By the end of the book, I felt like I had lost some old friends.While during much of the middle part of the book I was just disgusted with the mean-spiritedness of the horse-racing industry, the compelling qualities of the personalities--Pollard, who would quote Ralph Waldo Emerson to people who didn't even know who he was; Tom Smith, the taciturn trainer who spoke only to horses; and Seabiscuit himself, impish, magnificent, loving the spotlight and just living to run, was enough to make me not want to put the book down at the end.
5 This is --surprisingly -- one of the best books I've ever read.  I bought this book not because of the subject matter (I couldn't care less about horse racing) but because of the wonderful reviews it had received.  It does not disappoint--the character studies of the three men who owned, trained, and rode Seabiscuit are fascinating.  Hillenbrand's descriptions of the horse's mannerisms are touching and often hilarious. For a very readable and informative account not only about horse racing (and Hillenbrand's description about the sport make it sound enthralling) but also about the era in which Seabiscuit lived and raced, buy this book.  You're in for a great read.
5 Before I read Laura Hillenbrand's outstanding SEABISCUIT, I knew nothing about professional horse-racing and thought that &quot;C'mon, Seabiscuit&quot; was just an irrelevant cliche from the past, like &quot;23 Skidoo&quot; or &quot;Solid, Jackson!&quot;  But this marvelously researched and even more marvelously told account of a &quot;runty&quot; horse's rise to national fame is, to me, the very best nonfiction book this year, and I don't expect to find better any time soon.It's hard to paraphrase SEABISCUIT without lapsing into cliches; but truly the horse was the exquisite result of just the right combination of a wealthy owner, an intuitive and risk-taking trainer, a nervy and talented jockey, an intriguing bloodline, and the social/political context of America during the twilight of the Great Depression.  At one time &quot;Seabiscuit&quot; had better name recognition than Fascist dictators and royalty--I doubt even today's media-obsessed society could be so preoccupied with one athlete, human or equine.Compelling is the word for this book.  Through Hillenbrand's outstanding narrative the reader will, along the way, effortlessly aquire much of the technical vocabulary of horse-racing and an understanding of how it has fascinated for millenia and still fascinates.I'm not kidding--I couldn't put SEABISCUIT down.  What a tremendous book!
3 America was in the midst of the Great Depression and looking for heroes.  This unusual group delivered--Charles Howard, wealthy media seeker; Tom Smith, mysterious and practically silent trainer; and Red Pollard, tiny bookish and sharp-witted jockey.This group of men came together for a single purpose: to turn Seabiscuit into a champion racehorse.  Seabiscuit came from a good line of horses, but he had a funny shape for a racehorse, a bit low and stocky, and crooked front legs that gave him a strange gait.  He slept like the dead and ate like he was starving, and nobody could seem to train him to run.Smith, though, saw something special in Seabiscuit and convinced Howard to buy him when his frustrated owner gave up.  Thus the journey began.Seabiscuit had a huge amount of raw talent when he set his mind to racing.  It soon became apparent that he would be capable of breaking all sorts of records, and possibly becoming the best horse in the country.  However, the better he seemed, the more likely the race coordinators were to add weight to his saddle during races, to even things up and give other horses a chance.  Smith not only had to get Seabiscuit into top racing shape, but he had to do it largely in secret.  This secrecy naturally intrigued the press and the public, who followed this strange champion with rabid enthusiasm.This book gave me a whole new respect for the athleticism of jockeys.  I was unaware of what they had to go through in order to make weight, and also unaware of what was required to stay on a racehorse during a race.  I liked that aspect of the book.  However, as I don't know a thing about horseracing, I found a great deal of this book's detail went over my head.  My mind wandered during descriptions of races, and the constant mention of race times failed to impress me, as I couldn't put them into context.
5 I began reading Seabiscuit reluctantly and within minutes I was completely hooked. This book is flawlessly researched and detailed. Laura Hillenbrand's writing is fiercely addictive. She truly immerses you in the world of this extraordinary horse and the courageous men who faught for him. It was painful to finish this book. A spell was broken.
5 I have just recommended this book to a friend whose husband is ill.  I can't imagine a more inspirational book.  For me, it was all about commitment, ambition, and striving to overcome obstacles.  I found the book very moving as well as a real page-turner.
5 I love this book!  I read it and then I purchased another copy to give to a mother/daughter pair of horsewomen that I know.  It is an amazing story, I didn't want it to end.
4 This is a very detailed work and goes into the lives of all the principles, including Seabiscuit. I am still reading it and the only negative for me is the length and the ups and downs of the narrative. Sometimes fascinating, sometimes more information than necessary. For a novice like me, a very complete picture of how a jockey runs a race and all the differences between different horses.
5 After reading "Unbroken" of which I could not put down I immediately picked this book up by Laura Hillenbrand.  This book did not disappoint either!  Both books rank as some of the best reads I have come across in a very long time.I have no horse knowledge except for what I gained after reading this book.  The character development in her books is fabulous, well written and enjoyable to read.  I never felt lost due to lack of horse or racing knowledge as she beautifully recounts the history behind the horse, owner, jockey and trainer.I anxiously await more work from Mrs Hillenbrand!
5 A TERRIFIC BOOK written by a terrific author.As you read this book, you almost feel that you are in the saddleas the great horse makes the stretch run.Awesome!
5 Seabiscuit is a great movie, so I decide to read the book from where the movie was inspired. It was a good decision, the book is much better and has so many information about the history of the horse racers. It is a fast and fascinating reading.I recommend it. Do not miss this book.
5 A really good read about a truly great horse and those who owned, trained and rode him.
5 This is such a beautiful story! This author is one of my favorites, her prose is so elegant and she really has a way of painting pictures with her words, so when you read you can see the images in your brain as she is describing them to you. Her characters are always full of life, and the trials and triumphs each of them face is felt through every page. Anyone who has even the slightest interest in horses, racing, or the early part of the twentieth century should read this book!
4 The book was slow to start and had some slow moments throughout, but, overall, I loved the information about horse racing the lives that surround it. I have never seen the movie and am not into horse racing, but I still really enjoyed the book.
5 For those of us who missed the Depression, we'll never really understand just how hard the times were on the people who survived them.  Older relatives may often seem only parsimonious to us, when their memories of the Depression simply make it impossible for them to consider spending money in any but the most careful of ways.  Whenever times are tough, people look for heroes.  During the Depression, people needed something more, and Seabiscuit was just what the doctor ordered.  At a time when almost one-quarter of all Americans were out of work and most of those who were working could hardly be called well-off, a castoff horse captured the nation's imagination, not just with his prodigious physical talent, but with his drive to succeed.  Such a great story deserves to be told well, and Laura Hillenbrand deserves great credit for giving the story the craftsmanship it merits.Seabiscuit doesn't just tell the story of probably the greatest horse ever to take the field; Hillenbrand ties the story of the horse to its owner, its trainer, its jockey, and its country.  Each character is painted with vivid detail, warts and all.  Seabiscuit is no hagiography; these were men with many faults as well as virtues, and Hillenbrand doesn't flinch from portraying them.  Yet in the telling, the characters become greater rather than worse.  And none greater than the title character, whose incredible exploits seem to gallop off the page, particularly in the magnificently-detailed descriptions of Seabiscuit's races.Although very detailed, the book reads more like a novel than a history.  The pages fly by as Hillenbrand's prose brings historical figures to life with such detail it's impossible not to be drawn into their lives.  Better still, though Hillenbrand writes like a novelist, she cites sources like a historian, reminding the reader that, while Seabiscuit's exploits may seem legendary, he was absolutely real.  And the reader will be absolutely awed to read of all that Seabiscuit accomplished.For those who've seen the movie first, there's still plenty here for you.  The book goes into so much more depth than a movie can, reading this will only increase your enjoyment of the film.
5 I'm not typically one to read autobiographies or true stories, but having heard so much good &quot;buzz&quot; about &quot;Seabiscuit&quot; I put it on my birthday list and wasn't sure how excited to be when I actually received a copy.  After leaving it on the shelf for a couple of months, I finally dragged it down ... wondering how long it would take me to read (it's a hefty book, and the print is by no means large!).The answer?  Under a week -- reading in bed, in the car, ANYWHERE where I could continue to devour the pages of this amazingly well-written, well-researched book.  Laura Hillenbrand has taken the true tale of a scrawny, behaviorally-challenged Thoroughbred colt who energized the nation with each comeback he made and turned it into a gripping, page-turning read.  Having picked it up for the &quot;horsey&quot; aspects alone, I was stunned to find myself enthralled by the background stories of the owner, trainer, and jockey who came together quite by chance to bring this horse to his full potential.  I actually laughed out loud when reading some of the descriptive passages relating to Seabiscuit's personality traits and behavior quirks, I rooted for him to win races that are long since past, and I cried for this horse who has long since left the earth.Please read this beautiful story and let it take you back to a time when even a nation plunged into financial despair could garner real pleasure and joy from watching a true athlete do what he was born to do.
5 What a great story! So much to it, the underdog who helps heal his owner, trainer and jockey while they heal him and conquers the favorite. And the history behind it is incredible!
5 The author did a marvelous job of keeping the story fresh and suspenseful and that is not always easy to do with history. Her writing is crisp and her delightful descriptions of people and the times are peppered with a gentle humor. Underlying the whole story of the trainer, the jockey, and the owner is her appreciation of the nobility, competitiveness, and heart of this small, ungainly horse. Thank you for the experience!
5 This book follows the life of Seabiscuit, an incredible racehorse in the 1930's, and the three men who were entwined in his life: live-wire owner Charles Howard, taciturn trainer Tom Smith, and reckless jockey Red Pollard. WOW. This is an amazing book. I read it because I had watched the movie and loved it, but I wasn't thinking I would actually enjoy the book. I felt obligated to read it. Well, it's probably my favorite book to read this year. The author sets up each character carefully, going back to the man's birth, or further back, and the reader really gets a sense of what drives each person. The character development for "the Biscuit" is truly great, as well. His personality really shines, and I wish I could have met him! Her insertion of anecdotes is masterful, as well. The era (the Depression), the nation's mindset, the men who loved Seabiscuit, the means jockeys undertook to maintain racing weight are all described and explained wonderfully, without the author ever becoming pedantic or talking down to us folks who don't know racing. One doesn't have to be a "race person" or a "horse person" to enjoy this beautifully crafted book. The rave reviews are well-deserved. It's the story of underdogs achieving great things. It was an exhilarating and enthralling read; better than any fiction I read this year. After reading this, I would read anything this author put out.
3 I struggled to get into this book, and finally decided I could not continue.  I'm sure it's great if you enjoy reading straight from history books, but I do not. It was written in third person (at least to the point I stopped, which wasn't that far in), which I don't enjoy.  Others raved about this book...I guess I prefer something different.
3 I can't believe the reviews on this book!  I read it months ago, and found it long-winded and boring.  I am not a horse person, and truthfully, after reading this book, I find myself not wanting to ever go to the horse track...  I am shocked sometimes by what novels capture the &quot;common folks&quot; attention.  Literature this ain't!!!  Beach reading this ain't!!!  I need to read a book to help me fall asleep; now that's the rub.
5 Laura is a great writer.  She does her home work and tells a great story with the facts available.  I read Unbroken and enjoyed that too.
5 This book is in my top ten best books in my entire reading career. Laura Hillenbrand is one terrific writer and this is a great story.
5 This book is a history of a horse named Seabiscuit, whose racing career was roughly from 1936-1940.  The author succeeds in making this a compelling story by squeezing the maximum amount of melodrama out of it.First, she does a nice job of describing the Depression-era setting.  She sets up a conflict between upstart California, where horse racing has just been re-legalized, and the older East Coast tracks.Second, she brings out the temperamental idiosyncrasies of the proud horse, the flamboyant owner, the laconic trainer, and the gritty jockey.  They are as colorful as characters in a novel.Third, she takes us inside the world of racing:  the dangers and athletic demands faced by jockeys; the fouls and subterfuge that were committed during this period; the power of the racing stewards.The result is a very gripping story. The book is almost bound to exceed anyone's expectations for it.
5 Laura Hillenbrand's book Seabiscuit: An American Legend was absolutely unbealivable. I could not put this book down! Normally, I do not read these types of books. I personally prefer the action/adventure and horror novels. However, my wife asked me to read this true story about a horse and three men who overcame all odds to become true American Hero's.I admit, I put off reading this wonderful story. After a few weeks, I finally sat down and began reading. And reading. And reading. I was hooked immediately. Hillenbrand's style is impressive and her narrative takes you back nearly 70 years. At times you feel as if you are actually there with this amazing horse and these amazing people.The chapter covering the race between Seabiscuit and War Admiral is probably one of the best chapters in literay history. I read it three times and each time I was there in the stands watching this unbealivable scean play out in front of me.This book is amazing. The story is amazing. This is true America! Read this book and you too will be hooked!Just amazing!
5 I picked up this book after thoroughly enjoying the film and wanting to learn more, and I'm really glad I did.  As fun as the film was, the book is even better.  I loved learning about the social history of the 1930s and 40s and an account of horseracing in that era.  The things jockeys did to stay underweight!  With four years of research backing her up, the writing is vivid -- filled with lively anecdotes and quotes.  Hillenbrand is a terrific author, and the races come alive as she writes.  This is a fast and fascinating read about a scruffy horse and the three men who joined with him to create an inspirational racing team.  It is well-written and exciting, contains pictures, notes, an index, Seabiscuit's official career racing chart, an interview with the author and discussion group questions.Highly recommended.
5 This is definitely a great book.  With this effort, Hillenbrand proves that she is a master at bringing history to life, breathing life into an era gone by.  I have to admit, I'd never heard of Seabiscuit the horse until I read this book, but you certainly don't have to have lived in the 1930s to appreciate this book.  Hillenbrand spares no details, and apparently conducted excruciating research before writing this.  The characters- including the horses- are richly developed and vividly brought to life.  The reader comes away with a moving feeling of what it might have felt like to be involved in horse racing in the 1930s.  Highly recommended.  Avery Z. Conner, author of &quot;Fevers of the Mind&quot;.
5 My book club chose this as our September read and I'm certainly glad. This book is one of the rising new genre of creating a social history of a period by using the life/experience/career of a celebrity or historically important person - in this case, a horse. Seabiscuit has a very individual personality, and the men who surrounded him were equally individualistic. Set against the background of the early Roosevelt years, this book gives insight into such diverse phenomena as the rise of the automobile, the decline of the frontier ideal, and the harrowing labor conditions of the first third of the 20th century. In tone the book is chatty and easy to read, but there is solid substance under the surface.
4 Charles Howard was good at spotting opportunities and made a fortune as the General Motors automobile distributor for the Western United States in the 1920's. He also made the most unlikely choice of Tom Smith as trainer for his newly established racing stable.Smith was 56 when Howard met him and had spent his life around horses, cattle ranching, taming mustangs for the British cavalry, circus shows, small time racing but by 1934 he was out of money and he lived in the same stall as his only horse.Charles Howard decided that the uncommunicative Smith was the right person for his project, and Smith travelled round the tracks for him looking at hundreds of cheap horses until he found the well bred loser "Seabiscuit".He saw something there, and together with jockey Red Pollard they went on to win everything in American racing.Laura Hillenbrand obviously loves horses and has written a great story about the almost magical rise of "Seabiscuit".
5 Hildebrand is a great story teller. Satisfying is.  a wonderful story I love this book and I also love this author.s way of writing.
5 I read Seabiscuit in 2003 based on an article I read in the New Yorker about the author.  She is an amazing person and put everything she had into writing this book.  It shows.  She takes you to the Depression and you feel the mood of the country.  Seabiscuit is real and you love him (so much personality).  This story unfolds in the hands of Ms. Hillebrand like no other I've ever read.  It is one of the best books ever written.
5 Seabiscuit is quite a tale of one of the most impressive race horses ever.  I agree with the common comments that this book is an inspirational and very emotional story.  However, I liked this book a lot more for the other harsh aspects of horse racing that it details.  For example, Seabiscuit does an amazing job of really showing what it was like to be a jockey in those times.  I found it fascinating to learn the extent to which a jockey would push his body just to be the right size and weight.When I thought of the 1930's before reading Seabiscuit, the first thing that popped into my mind was the extreme poverty and stagnation of the Great Depression.  After reading Seabiscuit, I now think of the 1930's in a completely different light.  I realize that even through those difficult times, there remained some activities around which many Americans rallied.  In this respect, Seabiscuit changed the way I look at the history of this country, and as such, can be awarded no less than five stars.
3 Laura Hillenbrand's &quot;New Yorker&quot; article this year, about her bout with chronic fatigue syndrome, was sheer brilliance -- one of the best pieces I have ever read in that magazine. Half way through the article I learned that she had penned &quot;Seabiscuit,&quot; which was then the rage among non-fiction readers (while the movie was doing brisk business in theaters).So I picked up &quot;Seabiscuit&quot; and was treated to prose that was compelling, yes, but not as concise (obviously) as her NYer article, and not as painstakingly edited. It's a good book, an entertaining book, a book you can learn a bit from. But I gave up after reading half of it -- it just felt like more of the same.I prefer the structure of novels, I guess. And maybe I'm a bit jealous that so many readers eschew literary fiction (which I write) for more easily digested non-fiction like this (which I do not write).So please don't read &quot;Seabiscuit&quot; because it's hot, a bestseller. Please don't read it so that you can have an opinion to share at cocktail parties. Do read it for Hillenbrand's quality prose, which is truly capable of putting you in the saddle. And when you're finished, pick up a nice novel.
5 Even if you have not a shred of interest in horses or horse racing (I sure don't), you will love this book, assuming you have any heart and soul whatsoever. The initial exposition bogs down a little in places, but it's all necessary information. You'll come to love the horse, feel real compassion for the jockey, and just generally have a great read. After you've read it, look for the PBS special on Seabiscuit and see that runty, huge-hearted animal in action.
5 waiting for one of the incredibly exciting races to come to its dramatic conclusion.  One night I actually put an extra 5 miles on the car driving around my neighborhood waiting for Seabiscuit to get the best of War Admiral.It is very gripping, and if you happen to be listening to the audio version, Campbell Scott does a great job of narration.  I liked it better even on tape than in &quot;hard copy&quot; form, because on tape my mind's eye was free to make a picture of the race rather than concentrating on the printed word.Either way, a great read (or listen).
5 The legend of Seabiscuit continues to grow. On June 23, 2007, a replica of the original statue and granite pedestal of the 'Biscuit will be dedicated in a ceremony at Ridgewood Ranch in Willits, CA, which was his home until his death in 1947 at age 14.The two original statues are at Santa Anita Park - since 1941 - and, since the 1990s, at the National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame in Saratoga, NY. The latter statue once stood at the ranch.And where Seabiscuit came alive in Laura Hillenbrand's outstanding biography, the collector's edition truly is a fitting tribute to the racer & the people around him throughout his career. A slightly oversized book, it includes the text of the original edition plus countless photographs that richly adds to the story.Hillenbrand brought a lost slice of sports history to life, but Seabiscuit will live forever through the efforts of many people to save Ridgewood Ranch and have the replica statue back home.Seabiscuit: An American Legend is more than a Thoroughbred racing tale, and The Special Illustrated Collector's Edition is not simply a collection of photographs tossed together for this volume. It shows again how the power of this special Thoroughbred transcends the wins and defeats on the tracks from so many years ago.There were runners faster and more talented than Seabiscuit, but his legend continues to race to greater heights.
5 Buy this book!  You will not want to put it down.  Made me love a hors that's been dead longer than I've been alive.
5 Although this book is well-known by now, it is still one ofthe best to come out in years, and it should not be missed byany reader.Hillenbrand does such a fantastic job of outlining the characters involved, and showing such depth of emotion and feeling of all the men involved in the development of the racehorse Seabiscuit, it is almost impossible to believe she isso young.  Her writing reveals such a strong concept of themotivations and feelings of these people, all her descriptionshave the feel of having been written by someone of great wisdomand experience in the world.  The fact that she is young illustrates her ability and her commitment to a first-classstory.Her feeling for, and descriptions of, the Depression yearsof the late '30s are also equal to the best to be found, andshe has that ability with her writing to grab the reader andthrust them into that era.This is not only a book about a racehorse, but much more thanthat; this is a story of determination, the flowering of the human spirit, the heroic never-say-die attitude of all winners,and the rare ability of a few people to work together to produceresults undreamed of.  Here, the owner, the trainer, and thejockey worked together to produce results that no 2 of themcould have come close to.  And each individual was barely getting by in the field of horseracing before they all cametogether and produced such amazing results.The author has so researched her subjects, her book reads likeshe was right there with them, and every scene has such a ringof authenticity, we know she has talked to everyone alive whowas present at the time.  Plus, she puts those facts, feelingsand observations together in such a way that her book reads likea fine-tuned mystery or great novel.As said, this is much more than a story about a racehorse, andthis book will be enjoyed by any reader.
5 A story about a horse that celebrates the triumph of the human spirit, "Seabiscuit" is almost too good to be true. Yet Laura Hillenbrand's 2001 book about an ungainly thoroughbred who would win 33 races and upend a sport comes with generous footnotes that tether it to reality.Even so, the book starts with a bit of a whopper: The claim Seabiscuit was a bigger newsmaker in 1938 than FDR or Hitler. Snopes.com picks this one apart, though it doesn't change a jot of my admiration for the book or its author. Some authors work with dry data and musty factoids. Hillenbrand resurrects passions and reassembles the texture of the times from living memory. You may get a tall tale or two, but more important is an immersive feeling of what it was like to have been a witness to something so ridiculously grand and heart-tugging.As much as the book is about the horse, it's even more about his most regular rider, the half-blind, busted-down, habitually unlucky Red Pollard. When Pollard and the Biscuit came together, history was made, and made again. Hillenbrand puts you with Pollard in the saddle."With the crowd on its feet, Pollard spread himself flat over Seabiscuit's withers, reins clutched in his left hand, right hand pressed flat to Seabiscuit's neck, head turned and eyes fixed on Professor Paul's broad blaze," she writes.The fact Pollard suffered so much to get where he was comes across vividly. Hillenbrand herself suffered from a decades-long chronic exhaustive condition while writing this, and seems to channel her experience in Pollard especially, "sinking downward through his life with the pendulous motion of a leaf falling through still air." It accounts for some undeniable lack of critical reserve, but at the same time, her poetic turns of phrase and ability to lay out the technical dimensions of the sport and of Seabiscuit's abilities (including the horse's unorthodox, swivel-legged gait) break through the jargony boundaries of horseracing in high, readable style.About the most difficulty I've had reading this book (three times already) is from the fear of getting my heart broken, even when I think I know what happens next. Seabiscuit was no natural world-beater; he lost to more than a few horses and was an underdog from his earliest racing days to his final run. Pollard got injured so badly on a racetrack he was thought to be at death's door, then went back only to suffer another catastrophic injury that everyone but Pollard thought had ended his career."Getting back on the horse" is a common term these days; Pollard's story gives it deeper meaning. In Seabiscuit he found his ticket to glory, with Hillenbrand you get to share his ride.
5 Laura Hillenbrand's use of language to describe Seabisuit's ascent to infamy is incredible. Her writing is elegant and concise, and leaves you wanting more.Seabiscuit wasn't much to look at.  Trained by one of the top trainers in America, a man named Fitzsimmons, and in a quite impressive pedigree, he did not live up to expectations. Fitzsimmons resorted to more brutal methods to get the horse to run, whipping him from start to finish.A man named Tom Smith changed all that, and took a horse even the best trainer at the time couldn't work with, and made him famous.Hillenbrand is excellent, using phrases like, &quot;. . . the horses shook sleep from their bodies.&quot;  She details every moment of the races, so you too, feel like you were there, watching Seabiscuit churn dust under his hooves as he raced against his opponents, taunting them for the win.
3 I really loved the first half of this book. I loved the ending as well, but the book was about twice as long as it needed to be. I learned volumes about horse racing, but the build up for each little race kind of took away from the dramatic ending.I love the story and I do believe that Seabiscuit was a once in a lifetime horse. Now I want to see the movie!
5 SEABISCUIT: AN AMERICAN LEGEND by Laura Hillenbrand is the true story of how three men and a great racehorse captivated the world . . . I'm not a horseracing fan, but you don't have to be to enjoy this exciting book . . . Seabiscuit was an unlikely champion . . . his racing form was all wrong and for two years, he fought his trainers and floundered at the lowest level of racing . . . only when he was purchased by a former bicycle repairman (who introduced the automobile to the American West) and then teamed-up with a failing jockey and enigmatic trainer did he begin to succeed . . . by the end of his career, I found myself practically cheering his every race.That's probably because the writing was so excellent . . . there were many memorable passages; among them:For Smith, training was a long, quiet conversation. He was baffled by other people's inability to grasp what he was doing. &quot;It's easy to talk to a horse if you understand his language,&quot; he once said. &quot;Horses stay the same from the day they are born until the day they die. . . . They are only changed by the way people treat them.&quot; He believed with complete conviction that no animal was permanently ruined. Every horse could be improved. He lived by a single maxim: &quot;Learn your horse. Each one is an individual, and once you penetrate his mind and heart, you can often work wonders with an otherwise intractable beast.&quot;Most jockeys took a more straightforward approach: the radical diet, consisting of six hundred calories a day. Red Pollard went as long as a year eating nothing but eggs. Sunny Jim Fitzsimmons confessed that during his riding days a typical dinner consisted of a leaf or two of lettuce, and he would eat them only after placing them on windowsills to dry the water out of them. Water, because of its weight, was the prime enemy, and jockeys went to absurd lengths to keep it out of their systems. Most drank virtually nothing. A common practice was to have jockeys' room valet open soda cans by puncturing the top with an ice pick, making it impossible to drink more than a few drops at a time. The sight and sound of water became a torment; Fitzsimmons habitually avoided areas of the barn where horses were being washed because the spectacle of flowing water was agonizing.Somewhere among the railways in the heart of the country, Seabiscuit slipped out of 1938. That year, no individual had known fame and popularity that was as intense and far-reaching. A study of news outlets revealed that the little horse had drawn more newspaper coverage in 1938 than Roosevelt, who was second, Hitler (third), Mussolini (fourth), out of other newsmakers. His match with War Admiral was almost certainly the single biggest news story of the year and one of the biggest sports moments of the century. &quot;The affection that this inarticulate brown horse had aroused,&quot; journalist Ed Sullivan would write, &quot;was a most amazing thing.&quot;
4 Enlightening book about horse racing.  An easy read and full of excitement.  I recommend it to everyone interested in horse racing.
5 Other than reading some fiction about horses when I was a kid--Black Beauty is the title that springs to mind--I'm not a huge fan of horses or horse racing. Oh, I watch the Triple Crown races every year and marvel over the exploits of Secretariat, but I don't believe I knew anything about Seabiscuit before reading this book. Without telling you anything about the story (you can get all that from the dust jacket or from the editorial reviews), I will say that I found the story so moving that I had difficulty reading the final chapter or the chapter on the famous match race between the Biscuit and War Admiral. What a horse! And what a wonderful job the author did. This is one book that's fully deserving of all the glowing reviews about it.
5 Great bookWell written and very interesting book. Author has made a difficult subject interesting in today's society. Good job
5 I have never watched a horse race in my life, do not know much about horses either; but after going through a lot of favorable reviews of "The Seabiscuit," decided to read this book, and I am glad I did. This book is not about horse racing - even though some of Seabiscuit's races, especially the one with the War Admiral, have been described in great and fascinating detail. It is about the four main characters in the novel: the jockey, the trainer, the owner, and Seabiscuit - the horse; each uniquely gifted, but it was not until destiny brought them together that their individual talents combined to produce one of the most popular sports icon in American history.Laura Hillenbrand does a wonderful job narrating the background of each of the main characters: their trials and tribulations, their misfortune and heartaches, the circumstances that unite them, and the subsequent chain of events that culminated with Seabiscuit winning the Santa Anita handicap. Since this novel is based on a true story, I am still amazed at the amount of research Laura must have done to write it. A gem of a book and I highly recommend it.
5 This is history not fiction, but it is comprised of dozens of fascinating stories about the lives of those who brought us Seabisquit, perhaps the greatest racehorse of all time and surely the most improbable of all the great winners.  The characters are real to a fault, the prose journalistic at times and elegant and poetic at others.  Above all, this is a masterpiece of research.  It took only four years to write, but it's depth of detail and accuracy would have justified a lifetime of effort to complete.  Brava and brava again to Laura Hillenbrand!!!BookAWeekMan
5 I bought this book based on some very positive reviews not because I have any interest in horse racing. I have always loved horses but never had much interest in racing.Kudos to Laura Hildebrand, she is a fabulous author. She made a topic in which I had no interest come alive and make me sit up and take notice. The book is beautifully written, absolutely facinating. I laughed, I cried and I couldn't put it down. Seabiscuit will now remain in my heart as a beloved horse though I have never even seen film of him racing. Ms. Hildebrand made all of the characters come alive and become people about whom you cared.  This is the case, most of all, with Seabiscuit.  This book is a must read.
5 Seabiscuit remains very much with me. Ms. Hillenbrand has created a superb piece of work that is more than an incredible story about a remarkable racehorse. It is a penetrating tale because of the pitfalls and triumphs (especially the jockey Pollard) and the passion. The passion and dedication to Seabiscuit from his owner, trainer and rider. Seabiscuit remains magical after all these years. He is truly a success story and what surrounds him becomes successful.
5 This is a remarkable book about an unlikely champion race horse, "Sea Biscuit."Despite having excellent bloodlines, this descendant of "Man O' War" was struggling in lesser racing venues and competing in low level claiming races without much success. As a physical specimen, "Sea Biscuit" (the name was a variation on that of his sire, "Hardtack"), was less than awe inspiring. To some observers, his curious gait suggested that the ill tempered horse was lame. Moreover, according to conventional wisdom, the horse was simply too old to continue competing much longer.Nevertheless, the courageous horse rapidly responded when a trio of men, his new owner, trainer, and his principal jockey, began to rehabilitate the new acquistion and soon the horse became the toast of California. Easterners were dismissive of "Sea Biscuit," so it became necessary to ship the animal across the United States to compete elsewhere. The stories of the adversity, bad luck and Great Depression Era determination, faced by men associated with "Sea Biscuit" make for a remarkable and compelling story.The current state of the American horse racing industry is troubled, but Laura Hillenbrand does an effective job of transporting readers back to an era when race tracks were oftentimes filled to capacity and sometimes beyond as spectators were permitted to overrun the infields. Horse racing was not all glamour in the "Golden Era," however, and the author recounts the numerous hardships endured by jockeys and horses alike. Most tracks did not even have ambulances and medical personnel available to deal with the frequent life threatening injuries that were so commonplace. Jockey Red Pollard, himself, was repeatedly hospitalized due to injuries.I found this book to be most engrossing and could not put it down. I do not think that you need to be a horse racing fan to enjoy this book. I would be surprised if Hollywood could do justice to this particular book, so if you have watched the movie, do not neglect reading the book.
5 Seabiscuit, along with The DaVinci Code are my favorite books that I've read in the last year or so.  The story of three different men who've all endured their own pitfalls, and how they come together around a runt of a horse is quite endearing.  The author has carefully researched the three principal protagonists and their stories to create the sensation that you've been transported to Depression-era America.  The magnitude of stardom that this horse enjoyed is unparralleled in todays world, and is something very much worth reading about.  Read this book before seeing the movie.
5 This is a great book.  The story of Seabiscuit is truly amazing, how a well-bred but awkward and underacheiving horse became one of the greatest that ever lived, and captured the imagination of a country wrapped in the depths of the Great Depression.  The story of the long journey from claimer to champion, along with the lives of the men who guided Seabiscuit along that road, make for some very compelling reading.The writing in this book is exceptional.  There are virtually no clumsy sentences.  Hillenbrand's words flow smoothly, enhancing the picture that she paints and allowing the reader to engross himself (or herself) in the story.  Especially vivid are the descriptions of the races in which Seabiscuit participates, where the power and intensity of the horses and riders are conveyed in stunning detail.  Also interesting is the psychology of the race horses, from their desire to run to the way they interact on the track.  The accounts of Seabiscuit's behavior make for some of the best reading in the book, and really help to enlighten the reader on how race horses think.Hillenbrand also provides an interesting glimpse into the world of the depression-era horse racing industry.  Tom Smith's cat-and-mouse games with the press are quite humorous, but one of the things that surprised me was horrendous lives that jockeys lived.  Injury and death was an accepted part of the job, and the struggle to make weight was performed with gruesome recklessness."Seabiscuit" is one of the best sports books I have ever read.  The combination of a great story and wonderful writing make this book one to be treasured.
5 I had heard from more than a couple of people how wonderful this book was, but was skeptical because the subject matter didn't interest me that much. It's great! What so many people have said is how much the story of Seabiscuit, Red Pollard (the jockey), Tom Smith (the trainer) and Charles Howard (the owner)reads like a work of fiction. Laura Hillenbrand has a wonderful knack for making you really care about these people, and fall in love with the horse. The book is also so accessible for people not familiar with the sporting event because it doesn't get weighed down with overly detailed facts about racing. It simply presents what you need to know in order to move the narrative along. It should make a fantastic movie.
5 This is not only the best thoroughbred racing book I have read, but one of the best books I have ever read.  While I was already familiar with the story of Seabiscuit and especially his race against War Admiral in the 1938 Pimlico Special, I learned so much about not only racing history but American history.  The beauty of this book is in the details.  The author's portrait of life during the depression and horse racing's role in capturing the public imagination is fantastic.  I hope that the popularity of this great work gets more people interested in going to racetracks and getting into the sport or racing.
5 It's hard to determine the true hero of this book. Is it the taciturn trainer, Tom Smith, who took a colt the worlds leading trainer (the still-revered Sunny Jim Fitzsimmons) couldn't truly fathom and turn the reject into a champion racehorse? Is it Charles Howard, the car salesman turned millionaire who devoted so much of his time, money and energy to his beloved horse, never second-guessing his trainer and remaining ever steadfast in every adversity, including the death of his son?  Is it Seabiscuit himself, the reluctant claimer who went on to a superstardom that matched or superseded anything later achieved by Michael Jordan or Tiger Woods? Perhaps it is Johnny (Red) Pollard, the jockey who emerged from depths about as low as any human being can go to the winner's circle in America's most prestigious races? All of these would be strong candidates, but my Eclipse Award goes to Laura Hillenbrand, for rising up out of her sickbed often enough and long enough to accomplish something just as miraculous as the feats that Seabiscuit and team pulled off.Take it from someone who spent six years of his life as an observer and worker at backstretches all around this country. I have held jobs from hot walker to trainer, at venues such as Belmont Park, Gulfstream, Santa Anita, Bowie, The Fairgrounds, Monmouth Park, etc. I also had a chance to observe some excellent horsemen for whom I worked, including Frank Whitely, Elliot Burch, Woody Stephens, and others. I had the pleasure to meet and talk with Alfred Vanderbilt, one of the characters in this story, as he was an owner of one of the trainers for whom I groomed horses. I?ve seen most of what the backstretch has to offer, from  the lowliest stable-hand at a rickety bullring track in New Mexico, to the richest owner in the world purchasing horses at the Keeneland Yearling Sale.  So perhaps I feel myself qualified, though it is hardly necessary, to say that Laura Hillenbrand has written the book I wish I had had the talent and fortitude to write. Her book, more than any other I have ever read, captures life on the backstretch as it is, was, and ever shall be. She has gotten to the essence of horse-racing, capturing perfectly the allure, the dreams, the utter exhilaration and despair that unfolds day in and day out behind the scenes at racetracks the world over. She has done this despite severe physical infirmities that would have stopped us lesser humans in our tracks. Reading this book left me feeling as though I had just won the pick-four at Hollywood Park. Hats off and thrown high into the air to Laura Hillenbrand for an accomplishment that will be next to impossible to match.
5 Hillenbrand, Laura - SeabiscuitRandom House, New YorkBorn 5/23/1933; died 5/17/1947Sire - Hard Tack - son of Man O WarDam - Swing OnGrew up on Claiborne Farm, Paris, KY.Owner - Charles HowardTrainer - Tom SmithJockey - Ray "Red" PollardA novel of powerful personalities, and the man who recognized something in a quirky little stallion no one else wanted. The man was Tom Smith, who had grown up in the Indian Lands, and learned to read the signs of horses that he would be able to interpret so well.In the 1935 Narragansett Stake Race, Smith saw something in the horse that no one else did, including the legendary trainer Jim Fitzsimmons, who was Seabiscuit's trainer at the time. Smith immediately called Howard back in California and told him he had found his horse, and a deal was struck.Howard took a train East, and paid $8,000.00 for a horse he could have bought for $2,000.00 in a claiming race the month before. Seabiscuit was packed onto a train and shipped to Rosemont, CA., home of Howard's magnificent 17,000 acre ranch, and they went to work finding a rider. Smith slept with Seabiscuit all the way to Rosemont in his special car, talking to him all the way.After some months, Ray "Red" Pollard was tasked with the job of learning all of Smith's unusual training styles, and how to communicate with "the biscuit." It didn't take long before "the Biscuit", with Pollard's coaxing and Smith's training methods, which were more than somewhat unorthodox, began to win his races - all of them.A feud began between the former trainer, Fitzsimmons and Smith/Howard. In the West, the "biscuit" was virtually unbeatable. In the East, Fitzsimmons's "War Admiral" had won the Triple Crown, the Holy Grail of Horse Racing in 1937. Howard wanted a match race, and Fitzsimmons was playing hard to get, boasting that no horse (let alone one he couldn't get to run, and that he used to train) could beat War Admiral.A match was finally scheduled, only to be delayed by horrendous weather, at Pimlico, in Maryland. The day of the rescheduled race (11/1/1938) between the 2 horses of legendary fame was to take place after all. The crowds filled the stands to double their capacity. There was no starting gate, as we are familiar with today - a single rope stretched between the two horses was the starting line - the finish was obvious.Fifty thousand people packed the infield; the stands held another 70,000; outside the track were another 50 - 70,000 fans to see the "Race of the Century", as it was billed. It was broadcast nationwide; even FDR took time out of his day to listen to the race, as did Congress.When the rope dropped, signaling the race was on, the horses were running neck and neck for almost the entire race. As the final 1/4 mile post came up, Biscuit eyeballed War Admiral once, and put on a burst of speed the likes of which no one had ever seen before, or since, the little stallion leaving War Admiral in his dust, winning the race by 4 lengths. The crowd went crazy!The nation went crazy. He returned to California with apples,oats and carrots galore in his special boxcar, Tom Smith still sleeping by his side all the way. The Biscuit was named Horse of the Year for 1938, but there was one more prize Howard desperately wanted to win - "The Hundred Grander", at Santa Anita Racetrack which would be run in March, 1939. He proved his worth once again, and was retired from racing on April 10.There isn't a writer today who could deliver the goods as Hillenbrand has done in this book of exceptional character development and style. Hollywood made a movie out of her script, which they absolutely ruined in the process.I wouldn't give you 5 cents for a movie ticket, but I paid $19.95 for the book, which I'll keep as a classic on my shelves. If you have any interest in what these magnificent creatures can do, get this book - they were born to run, with the right training and a lot of patience, and run Seabiscuit did. The diminutive little horse with more heart than any other animal alive had given Howard all his trophies and became a symbol for the Nation of just what the little guy could do.
5 I've been hesitant to read non-fiction after far too many encounters with boring accounts of history throughout high school and college, but I tried this one and LOVED it.  It was so exciting--not at all like reading a textbook.  One of the best things about Hillenbrand is that she helped make some of the details of racing understandable but at the same time she didn't talk down to the reader either.  She seamlessly provided information about the era while telling the story of Howard, Smith, Pollard and Seabiscuit.  It certainly lives up to all the hype.
5 I just loved this book, and had trouble putting it down between reads.  The author, Laura Hillenbrand, has done a masterful job of research about &quot;The Biscuit&quot; and the men in his life.  Her style of tying together the details had me riveted.  I laughed, I cried, and with each race that she described I was on the edge of my seat.  I didn't want this book to end.
5 Not even a horse racing fan, I could not put this book down - I can in all honesty suggest you purchase this book and tell your friends - It is that good
5 There are so many wonderful reviews so I'll keep this short and sweet.  Seabiscuit by Laura Hillenbrand is one of the best non-fiction stories I have ever read.  I was enthralled from beginning to end.  The research is amazing, taking the reader back to a time long forgotten.  And if you love horses...oh my!
5 Laura takes so much trouble to gather her facts, and her books are very long and detailed, but never, for one minute, are they boring. Every detail of the horseracing fraternity in the US during the twenties and thirties is described, and of course the cracking story of horse and rider written off but coming back to triumph is compelling.
5 This also was purchased as a Secret Santa gift.  The person receiving it will love this story as I did on my Kindle.
4 I enjoyed the book, in fact, contributed to a tiny bit of it.  My wife and her friends raved about it.  And I am happy for the writer's great success.  She worked hard in drawing together all aspects of this story.  In the main she did splendidly.One thing must be said: War admiral was a TINY colt.  He was 15.2 hands NOT 18 hands as they said in the movie in order to hype the drama.  I'm sure Ms. Hillenbrand was not responsible for that ridiculous, disengenuous spot of Hollywood legerdemain. Also thoroughbreds can run close to 40 mph, but not 55 as Hillenbrand suggests.Still, the book was a boon to thoroughbred racing and for those of us who have spent years trying to teach today's star struck Secretariat/Cigar generations of the heroics of past thoroughbred champions like Round Table, Swaps, Dr. Fager, Armed, etc., etc.Kudos, Lauren.
5 First let me say this is undoubtedly the most interesting and enjoyable book I've read so far this year.  What this book ultimately accomplishes is serving up a piece of unique U.S. history, that most people know very little about, in a readable, even dramatic narrative.The author does a tremendous job of taking the story of an ungainly underdog racehorse - Seabiscuit, his owner Charles Howard, the taciturn trainer Tom Smith, and the colorful jockey Red Pollard, and blending it into a dramatic story.I knew nothing about horse racing prior to reading this book (other than being a casual watcher of the Triple Crown series on TV every year).  But you don't have to be a horse racing fan to enjoy this wild, fun ride.
5 I am not an autobiography reader, but this book just swept me away.  I absolutely fell in love with Seabiscuit and not being familiar with his life before this book, I was on the edge of my seat during each race.  Laura Hillenbrand wrote this so beautifully, I would definately read any other autobiography she wrote.  It was written like a novel and kept you engrosed like one also.  LOVED IT!!!
5 In this instance, the original and true story is far better than the later movie, which glossed over some of the true tragedy behind this story of amazing sporting success and prowess. (I descend from a similar family of horse breeders). So read this before seeing the movie, or if you have only seen the movie, make sure that you then read the book. Christopher Catherwood, descendant of horse breeders and author of CHRISTIANS, MUSLIMS AND ISLAMIC RAGE (Zondervan, 2003)
5 I've never been to a race track and gambling is not for me.  I don't know the basics about horses and avoid equestrian articles in the sports section. Seabiscuit, however, takes us on a fascinating ride: We experience the great fire that demolished San Francisco, we have house seats during the battle between horses and cars for transportation supremacy (the parallels between the early days of cars and the current cell-phone age are unavoidable and unsettling), and we stroll the streetsof Tijuana during its heyday a refuge from Prohibition.The protagonists are recognizably human and, in different ways, heroic. Even the moody and stubborn Seabiscuit is described with empathy. The narrative style is friendly and conversational, and the ending is unexpectedly moving.Seabiscuit has presided over the New York Times Bestsellers List for a while now, and there are plans for a movie. Maybe the film version will be effective. But do yourself a favor, treat yourself to this extraordinary tale before your first impression of Seabiscuit is a compromised, one-step removed film version.
5 When most readers are told that the book that received the award as virtually everybody's book of the year in 2001 is the story of a race horse it's hard to believe.  And frankly I kept reading this book amazed at myself for being so intrigued by it. Laura Hillenbrand has created a view of America that most American's of the 21th Century don't have a clue about. She shows a side of the Depression and the world of horse trainers and jockeys that is valuable, informative and well worth reading for everyone interested in America's past.For a society that assume entitledments in exchange for employement such as health care and retirement benefits and the right to join a union, the plight of the jockeys is &quot;worth the price of admission.&quot; I'm sure the expression &quot;by the seat of your pants&quot; is older than the sport of racing, but that's how jockeys lived - virtually by the seat of their pants.For animal lovers the treatment and love of the horse is heartwarming.This is a great book and well worth reading.  I've never been a horse racing fan but after reading SEABISCUIT I'm going to have a lot more respect of race horses and the entire sport. I only wish there were more like it.
4 In a recent New Yorker article, the author recounts her battle with chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS).  This makes all the more remarkable the achievement this book represents.  For like the owner, trainer, and jockeys of the horse Seabiscuit, the author overcame great odds to recognize that this story &quot;had legs.&quot;  Though the story lacks some of the depth of fiction or the detail of history, it does much to combine the two in page-turning, lyrical prose that informs us not only about the intricacies of horseracing, but also the expansion of the country, the arrival of the automobile, the impact of the depression, and the importance of human as well as equine character in determining destiny.  Although I have yet to see the movie, one could not ask more for the basis of a screenplay!
5 This book made me cry a few times and let me tell you this is a first.  The way Hillenbrand describes every small detail makes the story come alive. This is a must read. It is fun, funny, sad, exciting and a gripping read. I highly recommend this book.
5 Very insightful, this is a summer reading project for my youngest daughter, who is 15, and this book although the basis for the movie, goes into more facts, and gives the reader a feel for all of the characters, providing descriptions, and allows for descriptions of their thoughts and emotions.  I highly recommend this book for the complete and accurate story behind Seabiscuit well well well beyond the movie
5 Growing up in Texas, I was always around horses, I even managed to care for (wrangle) about 20 or so a couple of summers in my youth. I grew up , drifted away from horses, and rarely thought of them, except to remember these words that my Dad would quotewhen we would hop in the car to go places...&quot;And they are off and running at Pimlico, it's Seabiscuit by a nose&quot;. Then, along comes this book and motion picture.  Now, I am excited to say, I know who Seabiscuit is and what that saying was all about! I was excited about the movie and was glad to finally know the story of this great horse. Christmas came along and I got the DVD and book as a present. Well I began reading and could not put it down. The first book I have read cover to cover in about a year. Absolutely astounding work by Ms. Hillenbrand. She knows the subject and puts it all into prose we can all understand. This story of an underdog (horse) is as good as it gets. Seabiscuit aside, the smaller but no less grand stories of Red Pollard and Mr. Charles Howard are equally as fascinating, as are all the main characters..Laura fleshes them all out equally as well , it is a splendid story told in perfect detail of a True American Hero. Outstanding Reading!!
