5 The Wisdom of No Escape may rock everything you think about and everything you think you know about Buddhism and meditation to the core. It did for me. More it does the same for spiritual enlightenment beyond the religious doctrines of Buddhism or any other religion. You don't have to be Buddhist to read this book, nor must you be looking for lessons on how to meditate. Because this book, a selection of daily talks the author Pema Chodron gave to attendees of a meditation retreat in Gumpo Abbey, the Buddhist monastery she directs, is not even about Buddhism or meditation.It's about the principles of Buddhism and meditation. Precision. Gentleness. Openness. About the ideas behind and underlying the religion and its practices, not the religion and practices themselves. Principles to which we can all relate, no matter our creed, and from which we can all benefit, no matter our path.I caught myself about to describe in greater detail what this book says that Buddhism, meditation, and life are and are not, but that would be spoiling the surprise. One thing that I can say without spoiling anything, however, is that this book is filled with as many surprises as any good novel I've read.Chodron's voice is as down to earth and conversationally easy-reading as it is commanding and inspired. And this perspective she shares is a refreshing change from so much of the standard self-help and spirituality fare out there, which is all about becoming something more and better than the perfect being you already are.Enlightenment may not be what you think it is. It's certainly not what we're generally being taught in schools, what most religious institutions seem to be preaching (which isn't to say anything about the sanctity of the foundations of those religions, but I digress).Read The Wisdom of No Escape and, like I did, (re-)discover the liberating paradox in this hard and precious mortal life.
5 Extraordinarily understandable, insightful, and practical.  The challenge is to follow the practice with her inspiring persistence and patience.  I've always been intrigued by Buddhism view with Chodron making it applicable.
3 Good reminders in a long tradition.  The sort of book you may enjoy dipping into occasionally.  I prefer edge thinking.
5 I have read this book so many times. I love it so much that I buy it and give it to other people. A true guide for life.
5 This book is not for crybabies. Chodron offers valuable insights into the process of becoming proactive. She thinks outside of the "box".
5 I have an edition of this book that I picked up about 15 years ago.  I keep returning to this book year after year and have never tired of it.  It has survived many purges of my spiritual library over the years.  This book is sweet, easy to understand, and helpful.  It defines a meditation practice that is easy to apply to one's daily activities.  It is helping me relate more gently to the world and my life and is helpful in learning to awaken to the spaciousness and freedom that are ever present.
5 Pema Chodron addresses hard times head-on in this book and gives most helpful advice on coping.  I highly recommend this book.  Be aware, however, that Buddhist nuns do not have the same language constraints as Catholic nuns!
5 Like all the other books by this author, this book is an amazing, remarkable work.  A must have.
5 This is a great source of information for those who are seeking and those who love research. Ms. Illes did her homework well.It opens the eyes of those who are not aware of how many directions there are to go, in witchcraft. Brings better understanding of just how old the practice of witchcraft is, that it isn't just the latest " New Age" chic trend.
5 I love this book- it is an enormous resource for all things witchcraft, whether fictional, modern, ancient, or just plain strange. It covers a huge base of information, and I'm actually reading it cover to cover because it is so well-written and interesting! Many of the sections lead the reader to want to learn more about a given topic, and everything is clearly summarized. An essential resource for the modern witch- but also highly recommended to anyone curious about witchcraft as a subject as well!
5 Amazing book that offers a lot.  When you offer a lot sometimes areas are thin, but on the whole there is a wealth of information that is very valuable for writers as well as those on the journey of learning.Beautifully produced, well worth every penny.  If you bought this book and paid for the pound you would get your money's worth! An amazing about of work on folklore in it's most elemental form.I highly recommend it for paranormal writers.
5 I just recently ordered this book, and I haven't been able to put it down. Very well written, very easy to understand. I have all of the encyclopedia books written by Judika Illes and love them all.
5 "Whether you perceive the witch as powerful or evil may depend upon whether you perceive knowledge as desirable or dangerous; whether you perceive that human knowledge is something that should be limited. The witch doesn't think so. She, or he as the case may be, wants to know." -from the bookFrom shamanic shape shifting to food and drink, botanicals to sacred days, The Element Encyclopedia of Witchcraft - The Complete A to Z of the Entire Magical World is a fascinating and comprehensive celebration of all facets of witchcraft. From modern Wicca to Egyptian sorcery, Toltec shamanism to African Voudon, author Judith Illes explores the history, folklore, spirituality, and practices of witchcraft and the occult. According to Judika Illes, there are many definitions and beliefs about what a witch, and witchcraft, embodies. In the introduction, she examines the many theories, definitions and attitudes that have accompanied this oft-misunderstood subject.This book celebrates the fun, freedom, mystery and defiance of witchcraft, rather than any specific spiritual or political definition. Thus, this hardcover authoritative reference, which spans 887 pages, covers the people, places, professions, deities, traditions, books, film, fairy tales, animals, herbs, holy days, mythology, tools and symbols spanning hundreds of occult traditions. Topics are arranged alphabetically, and the main chapters are:Elements of WitchcraftBooks of Magic and WitchcraftBotanicalsCalendar of Revelry and Sacred DaysCreative ArtsDictionary of Witchcraft: A Magical VocabularyThe Divine Witch: Goddesses and GodsErgot, The Corn Mother, and The Rye WolfFairiesFairy-Tale Witches and Mother GooseFood and DrinkThe HagThe Horned One and The DevilMagical ArtsMagical ProfessionsPlaces: A Witch's Travel GuideTools of WitchcraftWitchcraft Hall of FameWitchcraze! Persecution of WitchesWomen's MysteriesWormwood and Garlic: Dangers and ProtectionsThe Element Encyclopedia contains intriguing information like:* The difference between almanacs, books of shadows, and grimoires* The colorful origins and uses of absinthe* In the book The Wonderful Wizard of Oz by L. Frank Baum, Dorothy's slippers were silver, not ruby. She is identified as a sorceress because she wears white and, according to the book, "Only witches and sorceresses wear white."* Prospero, the magician in Shakespeare's The Tempest, is believed to at least partially to be based on Dr. John Dee. Dr. Dee was famed astrologer to Queen Elizabeth, as well as a renowned alchemist, magician and scholar. This brilliant occultist was one of the founders of Enochian Magic.* If a plant contains the word "bane", beware! The word bane is a derivative of the Old German word bano meaning death. Thus, any plant containing "bane"-such as wolfsbane or henbane-is poisonous.* The character of Sabrina the Teenage Witch didn't begin with Melissa Joan Hart. She first appeared in the back pages of an Archie Comics magazine in October 1962. She was featured in her own comic book in April of 1971.* Psychopomp is a Greek word for a spirit who serves as an escort between the realms of the living and the dead. Hermes and Hecate are two well-known psychopomps.* Corn Mother myths span many cultures, and include Demeter, Baba Yaga, Ezili Dantor, and Saramama.* Cailleach (pronounced "coy-luk") is a Gaelic word often translated as hag. In Scottish and Irish folklore, Cailleach is a term for spirits corresponding to the archetype of the sacred hag.The Element Encyclopedia of Witchcraft is an utterly fascinating read.  Not only is it a source of browsing entertainment (I open it every chance I get!), but also is a rich source for research and study. For those who love the elements of witchcraft or identify with the Witch archetype-as well as those who are fascinated by mythology, history, trivia, and the magical arts-this book provides a comprehensive, yet lively, wealth of information that is sure to provide hours of enjoyment.Janet Boyer, author of The Back in Time Tarot Book: Picture the Past, Experience the Cards, Understand the Present (coming Fall 2008 from Hampton Roads Publishing)
5 I bought this as a reference book and really I don't think my library would be complete without it. I use it all the time.
5 Can I just say I love this woman!!! she is my favorite author on all things witchcraft, this book is like her other books chock full of info on spiritual paths and witchcraft all across the world. on page 830 there is a passage on witches mark, which were the subject of witch hunts in the past to tell who is a witch, its a curious story that many including myself has always wondered about.  on page 821 the subject on Women's Mysteries is a very interesting read on why women were and are still feared for their feminine mystery powers, being that were in the 24,000 year sun cycle of the divine feminine women choosing this path or it choosing them. need to know who they are and the power they wield.  I got a kick out of page 1 where the introduction begins with &#34;most of my clothes are black&#34; and I had to laugh as I know its a personal preference of clothing items. this books give the common and not so common names of various terms and paths. even one of my favorite personal the hag was listed. this is another good book that I will cherish and pass on to my daughters. Judika is the woman!!!
5 awsome like all of her other witchcraft books.must have for anyone interested in the occult and wicca
5 "The Element Encyclopedia of Witchcraft: the complete a-z for the entire magical world," is the constant companion to this Green Witch, ever at the ready on the side of my desk.  I like the spirit of this work. It has a distinctive playful spirit that makes learning about witchcraft fun and upbeat yet like all of Judika Illes work it is very informative and carefully researched. When we want a dry read there are plenty of other places to go looking.  I especially appreciate the creativity Judika Illes put forth in her arrangement of the Table of Contents.  While not your traditional A-Z, it is true to its title since Illes arranges the book alphabetically using topics rather than individual words.  For example "Animals" begins the tome on page 34 which runs from pages 34-106 and then "Books of Magic and Witchcraft" begins at page 107 followed by "Botanicals" on page 147 and so forth until we hit the final chapter at page 848, "Wormwood and Garlic Dangers and Protection."This is a book written by a witch for other witches and true to that concept it does not follow hard and fast rules you might find in an encyclopedia written for a different audience.  As a moderator for a yahoo group I have also found this encyclopedia to be a very useful teaching tool for study and it is informative to a large number of different practices as well as paths. For those in need of quick information there is a very reliable and accessible alphabetical Index, running from pages 866-886. For follow up, sourcing and general information there is also a generous Bibliography from pages 856-865 which concludes with a listing of Internet Sources. As a fellow witch and creative thinker I highly recommend "The Element Encyclopedia of Witchcraft."
5 Bought this book to add to our reference library.  Haven't had a chance to read it yet, but know that we will enjoy it.
5 This book explains quite a few concepts that may be used in modern day paganism, but it's not something that I would consider an Encyclopedia of witchcraft in practice, I think Ray Buckland's complete encyclopedia of witchcraft does a much better job of that aspect. However  I like Judika's writing style much better than the lofty almost seemingly arrogant style of Buckland. And this work seems less applicable to pagan oriented theory and is much more grounded in reality and is historically accurate... Where as Buckland creates his own definitions and ideas and puts them forward in a very direct manner.  I like the break down of historic figures of Witchcraft and even the Saints which surprised many a catholic who've I recommended the book to.I think she shows great detail to the subjects in her book and it covers a vast range of topics that are in it's precursor and companion The Encyclopedia of 5000 spells, but can be considered it's own work. Thank you Judika for this masterful piece carefully constructed and put together. It has rightfully earned a place in my library.
5 Once I read book 1, I couldn't stop.  Now I'm tearing through these very quickly.  I'm now reading book 5. So far, I love the entire series!
5 Bloodshot is the third mystery in Stuart MacBride's series featuring Detective Sergeant Logan MacRae. The story takes place in Aberdeen, Scotland. MacRae is working on three cases that all demand his attention.The first case involves a famous football player, Rob Macintyre, who is the main suspect in a serial rape case. After MacRae's girlfriend, Constable Jackie Watson, is attacked by Macintyre while working undercover, he is immediately arrested as the serial rapist that they were after. Unfortunately because of a lack of evidence and a tough lawyer, he is let go and free to rape more women.While trying to work the cases, MacRae is put into a tug of war between his superiors on which case is more important for him to work on.Detective Inspector Steel is a tough-talking, chain-smoking lesbian who demands MacRae's attention on a different case. Detective Inspector Insch is obese and easily angered by MacRae. He wants him working the Macintyre rape case. Insch is positive that Macintyre is the culprit no matter what other evidence might prove otherwise.The second case involves a murder committed by an 8-year-old boy named Sean Morrison. After stabbing an old man with a knife, Sean has disappeared and the cops can't find him anywhere. There is something more sinister going on for such a young boy to change so drastically into a murderer. What went wrong in his life for him to change so suddenly?The third case involves a man whose dead body was dumped at the hospital. He was brutally sexually tortured until he bled to death. After some investigating they find out that this man was involved in the porn business and the S&M; scene. Who killed this man? Was this a sexual escapade gone terribly wrong?Bloodshot is a fantastic police procedural/detective mystery that will keep you guessing until the last page is turned. I enjoyed this well-plotted mystery and will look for the previous books in the series.Armchair Interviews says: Bloodshot is a great book that mystery fans will inhale in one.
5 When I stumbled upon this author, I had no idea how much I would come to love the characters.  Great mystery, and I immediately bought all the other books in the series LOL.
5 Absolutely love Logan books. The interaction with Steel and others so funny. Please, please Stuart McBride, don't let anyone make a tv series of the books - the attempt to transfer Peter Robinson's Banks, failed dismally. Would hate this to happen to Logan.
5 What a different type of mystery. I listen to so many mysteries on audio and it almost get to be ho hum,  just another mystery.  Not this one!!!! This is SO different.  Not for the faint hearted though. This is the first ever story I have listened to of Stuart MacBride I didn't even realise is was the third in a series. Not a problem, easy to follow and just don't be surprised if your eyes fly wide open and you have a silly shocked look of your face at time while listening to parts of this story!!!!!Pedophiles, rapists, an 8 year old killer, BD SM porn kings filming themselves in the act and an undercover female policewoman dressed up to look like a hooker to catch a killer.Very fast pace story. The wonderful Scottish accented narrator did a great job!!!!!I rarely give a 5 star but story is SO different it deserves it!!! I highly recommend it.
3 I find MacBride's books exTREMELY grating and annoying, and yet I read them. When in need of a decent mystery to pass the time, I will read one. Only when I'm done to throw it down in disgust and say Never again! And then I will...MacBride is a classic case of someone who needs a d*mn decent editor! Everything is there. Great potential. But the writing is so d*mn repetitive at points that you just want to shoot yourself. Come on! Prune it down!!In this book, I just wanted to kill myself if I had to read ONE MORE REFERENCE to Inspector Steel and her cigarettes. EVERY TIME she appears he has to mention her smoking, looking for a cig, lighting one up, complaining of not having one, inhaling--you guessed it--"deeply." It practically ruined the book for me. In fact it did.I find Jackie Watson an incredibly unrealistic, annoying, ridiculous character. I wouldn't want to spend two minutes with her. She is completely unrealistic. No policeman/woman would be that volatile and emotional and unable to control themselves. Or if so they would be fired immediately. The same with Isobel. In fact his female characters are just all offensive and annoying.MacBride also has an extremely unnecessary tendency to be obscure and confusing. You're in the middle of one story, then he switches for a few pages to some scene with totally different characters, a chase or whatever and you are going "WTF?" Why? What's the point? Why confuse us? You're not James Joyce. You're writing a thriller, not experimenting with narrative form.And yet DESPITE so many things I still finished it and read the next one. I like his plots and the male characters at least, and when he isn't being tedious or confusing, it's a perfectly entertaining thriller that you want to read.A GOOD editor would weed out all the superfluous junk and just present a clean, well-written novel. That is not what we have here.For all my complaining, though, I would definately recommend MacBride over most new mystery writers today.
4 Why I read ItI have been reading Stuart MacBride's blog since before he published his first book thanks to the link on the great Sarah Weinman's site. Speaking of which, I really need to list the book websites I frequent in the sidebar. If you are interested in mysteries at all, Sarah's site, Confessions of an Idiosyncratic Mind, is the greatest blog ever. I can trace about 50% of all I read back to reviews I have seen on her blog.Anyways I read Stuart's first book, Cold Granite, when it came out and then over the years I forgot about him - Sorry Stuart if you are prone to googling yourself and read this. Anyways I was looking over my log of books read (a good practice to get into for just this reason) when I remembered him. A short search and I learned he had gone on to publish a book every year and my library system stocked them. So I am just now catching up.Plus it is good solid Scottish Crime fiction, sad and violent on the one hand and blackly funny on the other. Plus the books are set in Aberdeen letting you know that Edinburgh, Glasgow, and Lock Dubh are not the only place to die a nasty death while on vacation.What I Thought About ItGood story that just makes you fear Scotland as the crime capitol of the world :-) I like the implied social commentary about fame and its usefulness in getting away with crime. Plus what role do we as family have in helping versus enabling each other in nefarious behaviours? While you can read the books randomly I recommend you start at the beginning to get the overall character development.
5 I am reading all the Logan McRae books, trying to do it in order. Having a laugh with the author's jokes, really down to earth and brings the character's to life.
5 If you enjoy a good thriller then Stuart MacBride is an author for you. His books are exciting and have great characters.
4 I'm not usually one for hard-boiled police procedurals, but I love Stuart MacBride's books, and I really enjoyed this one. I'm reading them out of order, as I discovered him just a year or two ago.  In a way it is sort of fun, because I get to see Logan McRae's life before I first met him - kind of like digging into someone's past.The trademark MacBride touches are here: lots of foul language, politicking and infighting police officers, gritty Aberdeen. To be honest, the plots themselves aren't unique - there's one involving a dead porn star whose into the bondage/domination scene, one murderer who is only 8 years old, and a series of breakins.  But MacBride is such a great writer!  None of it ever feels forced, and the people feel real, from foul-mouthed chainsmoking DI Steel to fat angry Inspector Insch, who surely must grab his heart and fall down dead in one of these books, given the rage the fills his life.Holding it all together is Logan McRae, one of my favorite cops. I love that MacBride doesn't make him infallible.  McRae makes A LOT of mistakes while also doing lots of things right, so that he's perpetually walking the line between receiving department commendations and being fired. Sometimes he's a bumbler, which leads to some comic moments (a nice change of pace from the grittiness), but he always has a good heart. He feels like an island of sanity among the Grampien Police Department, who are always trying to shove their work off onto someone else, less senior. Guess Scotland's not that different from the United States!MacBride's books tend to be long and this one is definitely longer than your average mystery. I would say I noticed that occasionally, but the pacing is good and MacBride's writing just carries you along.  I would not say they are for the faint of heart, but they are darn good.  If I was single and fictional, Logan would own my heart.
5 I've read the entire series and loved them all! The plots are well developed and varied. The charcters are well definded and colorful - the bad guys/gals are truly evil and the good guys/gals are truly good though human and at times frail as we're all apt to be. I especially enjoy the taste of Scottish life and culture the author gives us.
4 This book continues with many of the same characters as previous books. DS Logan McRae has his hands full as he juggles case loads between Detective Inspector's Steel and Insch. Neither give him much leeway as he tries to prioritise his time between a serial rapist and a ?murder in a BDSM scene. Then there is the case of the child murderer who leads Aberdeen's finest on a merry chase. To top it off his relationship with the no nonsense PC Jackie Watson is under major stress.I enjoy this writers writing style, he always write a convoluted police procedural with very engaging characters. This book is as grim and gritty as others I have read by this author, the themes are always dark but there is always humor to alleviate the grittiness. I admit to laughing out loud at some of the very dark humor in these books. The dialogue is always spot on and this book is well worth reading for the author's portrayal of DI Steel, she is a hoot and is more than a match for DI Insch.
2 I like a good mystery. Read a lot of them. I recently came across Stuart MacBride and his detective Logan MacRae. I heard and read good things about him and was hopeful he would be better than I have found him to be. I try to read a series in the order it was written. So this, the third book in the series, is the third book I've read. I will keep reading and finish the series. But I have to say MacBride is no Rankin. And MacRae is no Rebus. MacBride's characters are consistent screw-ups. The books are full of screw-ups on both the personal and professional level. It gets rather tiresome to see the consistent stupidity. And I have to say in all honesty that I have yet to come across a character that I can like.But I'll keep reading.On another note, I wonder if the people who write the lead-ins to books (generally found on the inside front dust jacket) ever actually read the books. In the copy I read the lead-in begins "After an unwarranted transfer and demotion, Detective Sergeant Logan MacRae..." He was a Detective Sergeant in the first book, the second book and throughout this third book. So where's the demotion?
4 I actually read this as Broken Skin (the UK title).  I have another 4-5 of MacBride's book on my to-read shelf, and they will stay there a while--not because Broken Skin (I'll use the UK title) is bad, but rather because it's a disturbing work, and it deals with a very seamy underside of society.  I think it's rather like finding a maggoty mouse corpse in your basement--you know that from time to time there will be others, but you'd prefer not to find another just yet--you'd like something more cheerful for now.James Swain has a new book--Midnight Rambler--about pedophiles and such.  That book has huge holes in the plot:  Broken Skin is what Midnight Rambler should have been.  There are plenty of unpleasant villains in Broken Skin--pedophiles, rapists, an 8-year-old killer, B-D S-M porn kings, etc.  In Midnight Rambler, as in too many books, the villain must be a super-evil mastermind.  In Broken Skin, the villains are not masterminds, but instead are mostly rather ordinary (other than their criminal activities)--and much more believable.  Neither are the police geniuses--they succeed through ordinary groundwork, information-gathering, and some good or lucky guesses.I didn't find myself drawn to any of the characters--not like towards Tony Soprano or Robbie Coltrane in the Cracker series.  I had just finished Stephen Booth's new book Dying to Sin:  this and Broken Skin are both procedurals, both take place in rather gritty areas, both have police working on different crimes, but Broken Skin had plenty of tension, whereas Dying to Sin did not.  In the former book I'd often read a dozen more pages to see what was going to happen, in the latter book I'd put it down for the night with no regrets.  Broken Skin/Bloodshot is a solid book, but it isn't light reading.
5 Stuart McBride continues to entertain, amuse and blow me away with his vividly painted characters.  Love them all. (The next book I write I'm going to put in some characters with bad habits, real bad habits.  He's given me the confidence to try it.) It brings reality to his stories.
3 THEY ARE FUNNY TONGUE IN CHEEK AND EVERYWHERE  WITH BLOOD MAYHEM BUT DEFINATELY TO LONG COULD CUT A THIRD EASILY
5 In Scotland the Aberdeen police department sets up a sting to catch a serial rapist as Constable Jackie Watson is dressed up to look like a hooker not a cop.  When national sports hero Rob Macintyre is arrested for stalking her, the country is stunned and a bit upset.  However, when the media announce that one of the arresting officials Detective Sergeant Logan MacRae is Jackie's live-in lover, everyone screams foul condemning the police.  The Macintyre mess mangles the serial rapist investigation that is making no progress.MacRae works on two other cases at the same time he struggles with preventing another rape.  On one inquiry he becomes a first hand expert re the local BDSM scene; on the other he hunts an eight-year-old killer.  None of the three investigations prove easy or simple as his respective superior detective inspectors yank his butt between each of them demanding MacRae only work on their case.  However, making matters more difficult for MacRae is that he fears Jackie has crossed some line that spells the pending end of their relationship.Obviously this intelligent Scottish police procedural belongs to MacRae, but it is the ensemble support cast especially the cops, who turn BLOODSHOT into a great read.  The three cases are tough enough, but to MacRae it is the unbelievable demands by his superiors that are making them impossible.  With his personal life teetering, he tries to be in three places at the same time working a forty hour day.  Sub-genre readers will appreciate his efforts and his previous caseload (see DYING LIGHT and COLD GRANITE).Harriet Klausner
4 Being the third book of the series, Broken Skin is definitely a good read and will only make you want to read the next book in the series!
5 MacBride doesn't miss a beat in Bloodshot, the latest entry in his excellent Aberdeen, Scotland based series featuring Detective Sergeant Logan McRae. In the beginning of the book Logan's girlfriend Constable Jackie "Ball Breaker" Watson lives up to her nickname while busting a suspected serial rapist. When that suspect turns out to be a popular football star with a seemingly unshakable alibi who calls upon the services of a despicable solicitor and the sympathies of a gullible public, things, as usual, get complicated. McRae's personal life gets complicated too, as a misunderstanding with Jackie causes him to finally act on his long suppressed attraction for Rachael Tulloch, the deputy Procurator Fiscal. MacBride combines the mundane, the horrific and the ridiculous skillfully to produce another enormously satisfying read.Along with Ian Rankin and Denise Mina, MacBride is a leading figure in a Scottish crime wave that's producing some of the best mysteries in the world. The writing in this series is always great and the weather in Aberdeen is always awful.
4 Third in the Logan McRae series and another cracking read. The main characters from the first two books now wonderfully familiar - never dull or in the least bit boring; Like slipping into a comfy cardigan.  Once again MacBride's writing is excellent and the characters portrayed superbly and with utter realism, from the pregnant ice-maiden pathologist to the amateur dramatist jelly-tot eating Detective Inspector. This third book sees our &#34;hero&#34;  help solve some nasty rapes and a rather gruesome BDSM murder in and around weather beaten Aberdeen and again a couple of stories and sub-plots interplay with each other and work well set amidst the down to earth world of humdrum police work in north east Scotland. A fine story and a great read maybe not quite up to the 5 star standard as the first two but highly recommended indeed.
4 Read this one in two sittings ,As usual great characters and plot ..kept me guessing ..can't wait for the next book .
5 MacBride is a first rate Scottish noir author and MacRae is a quintessential tuechter....as always, it's a great ride. I'd recommend anything with these two.!
5 this is the first book I have read from this author. I will certainly be reading others.I have a strong preference for mysteries that are well written, interesting and usually with a good dash of personality, humor and wit added. This book fit that mold perfectly!I have been a fan of Ian Rankin for years now and I'm always looking for an author that interests me as much as Mr. Rankin has. So far, Mr. MacBride has met that standard. I will now read some of his other books and hopefully will like them as much as I enjoyed this book.This is one of a series of books but I found no problem reading it first. If you're looking for a new author, try this book, you won't be disappointed.
3 I wasn't expecting such &#34;colorful&#34; descriptions. Many get in the way of the story. Had to get used to the pace and lead character.
5 Get ready to read. You have to read these books in order yo really understand the characters. Need time to read as not easy to leave. Enjoy!
3 I very much enjoy this series and reading about Aberdeen. The plots are solid and usually credible, the characters sympathetic and the stories entertaining. They are not art, and I feel they don't stand on their own as novels the way some extraordinary mysteries do, but they are solid entertaining fun.
5 This is the third book by Macbride with the Logan McRae character and it doesn't disappoint. There is quite a cast of characters including DIs Steel and Insch. Throw in several constables, coroners and of course WPC Watson as Logan's significant other you have a lot of entertainment. The crimes and criminals are so gruesome that the bits of humor thrown in help alleviate some of the graphic violence. The interplay between Logan and his bosses, Steel and Insch make for interesting reading. The story takes place in Aberdeen, Scotland which, as described by the author, is a very dreary, depressing place. This novel deals with a serial rapists, a murderous eight year old boy and a vareity of other minor criminals who tend to frustrate Scotlands finest. This series is sometimes compared to the Ian Rankin Inspector Rebus novels but they are really quite different. Rebus is grittier and more cynical than McRae and the stories much darker. They are actually two excellent series of books that appeal to anyone who likes British/Scottish crime stories. Well worth the read.
3 An OK police crime solver as a glimpse into darker corners of life in Aberdeen.  Need to be in the mood for some gruesome stuff to &#34;gut&#34; through it.  Character development is fairly effective.
4 This is the third book in the mystery/police procedurals written by Stuart MacBride. DS Logan McRae is the center of the series, always looking for the killers and trying to find the moral, most prescient way.A serial rapist is leaving a string of women behind him. DS Logan McRae's girlfriend, PC Jackie' Watson,, is working as bait to flush out the rapist. What she does find is the star of the soccer team, and he denies any knowledge. At the same time McRae is involved in finding the murderer of a pornography star. It is all a mess,and it gets worse as time goes by.Stuart MacBride tells the stories in third person narrative, and yet manages to draw us right alongside. He is a superb writer, but I am getting tired of his DI's who are either fat or smoking wizened. I know the characters, and most of them are right in their characters. This third book was not as fast paced, nor was it as well written as the first two. Time takes it's toll, I gather.Recommended. prisrob 02-21-13
5 An excellent read kept me guessing. Now for the next one. I am enjoying the series. Good characters including the city.
5 This is the third in a fabulous series by Stuart MacBride. The author writes gritty crime books featuring Detective Sergeant Logan McRae. The books are set in Aberdeen, Scotland and the writer is able to paint a picture of the city. I studied there and reading McBride's description is bringing the city alive for me again.But, more than that, MacBride's characters are human. Logan McRae makes mistakes and has his moments of glory, which makes him a fantastic main character. He screws up at work and in his private life, but he is not the typical 'tragic hero' for whom everything goes wrong. Rather, he has his ups and downs just like everybody else. The storylines are incredibly well-written and it is difficult to put the book down. MacBride portrays crime and crime solving in a very realistic way which contributes to making the characters come alive.And, if I had known when I lived in Aberdeen, that the coppers went to Archibald Simpson's for a drink after their shifts, I certainly would have shown up there once or twice... !!!
5 This is a gritty, gory, hard boiled police procedural that pulls no punches, and examines issues such as non-traditional sexual lifestyles without flinching.  It is also sometimes uproariously funny, mostly because of the dialog between some of the main characters, and because of DI Steel ...a messy, mouthy, cynical and brilliant police officer who never took the courses on sensitivity or political correctness, and who would have thrown spit balls at the instructor if forced to co so.There are several on going cases in this book, most of which end up related to one another, even if tangentially, and the investigators deal with them when not being distracted by their personal dramas.The setting is Aberdeen, Scotland ...and this book is rich in the kinds of detail that could only be included by someone who has lived there for a very long time.  Despite its grittiness, this book kept me glued to my Kindle, and when I couldn't be reading, I was thinking about it.  The action is intense, the characters unique enough to want them safely on the pages of a book and *not* in my life, the dialog real, often funny, usually sarcastic, but absolutely believable.This is the 3rd book in this series, but I will certainly be reading the others, though not in one extended marathon.  I think, at least for me, I will want something a bit lighter in between, for contrast.This is, however, a superb book, and felt absolutely true in its portrayal of police work.  Settings and backgrounds may vary, but the essentials of a city police force, dealing with life, and crime, on the streets doesn't.  Alex MacBride has presented that life, against a marvelously rendered setting, impeccably.
5 There are not many series out there that can match the masterful writing of Stuart MacBride. Cold, depressing Aberdeen, Scotland, gruesome crimes and the crew of jaded, overworked detectives. This terrific blend of logical detecting and irresistible dark humor,stands out in the mystery world. Beautifully drawn, vivid characters, precise plotting and the crimes or puzzles almost old-fashioned in its stupendous execution. I can't wait for more....
4 Lots of ins and outs for McRae and Steel to ponder on or for Steel to moan about. Great sketches of their personalities, set in a grisley action thriller.
4 Interesting plot twists and characters although how Grampian Police manage to solve anything while being perpetually drunk or hungover is another layer of mystery.  Very enjoyable read especially with the Aberdeen back cloth.... Not to mention the passing references to Gilbert and Sullivan AmDram
5 The third installment in the police procedural series centering around Logan McRae is another exciting addition! Again, MacBride intricately plots a series of crimes before neatly wrapping each up - though not in an overly tidy or convenient fashion. Logan continues to be a sympathetic central character, but his bosses - the chain-smoking DI Steel and the constantly candy-munching DI Insch - really steal a lot of the limelight as both major and minor characters come vividly to life. The central case this time around involves a serial rapist stalking the streets of Aberdeen while BDSM hobbyist turn into killers alongside eight-year-olds murdering pensioners. It's fast-paced - never dragging in places likeDying Light (Logan McRae, Book 2)did in places - and quite thrilling. The lively dialogue makes for well-placed tension relief and the ending concludes on quite an intriguing note. I am really looking forward to the next book in this wonderful series!
5 MacBride has become my favorite crime thriller writer.  Against the dreary backdrop of Aberdeen, Scotland, a wonderful cast of police characters, gathered around detective sergeant Logan McRae, fuss and stumble through their investigations, surviving embarassment after embarassment, until they finally and spectacularly solve the crimes.  MacBride's characters are each unique and droll.  And MacBride has a Wambaugh-like sense of cynical humor with which he peppers his books.  This book explores, among other things, the bondage, sado-masochism scene in Aberdeen with eye-opening detail.  All in all, this is another wonderful book from the word processor of Stuart MacBride.
5 Thought provoking, interesting and a general pleasure to read. Mr. Primack weaves a nice web, connecting modern science and how we view it with our own strange, illiterate past. While not going overboard, he manages to explain why so many fail to comprehend today's science. Religion, of course is a major culprit, and Primack deals with that deftly.He writes well, maintains your interest, and has concocted a fine book.
5 good read
5 Like ants at a picnic, most humans haven't a clue of this universe (or is it a multiverse) in which we find ourselves. To quote Monty Python, how unlikely is your birth--should give one pause, and amazement of where we are. If you'd read this book in the 60s...it would have elicited words, like "Wow" "Far out". Today, I'd just say--read it and be amazed.
4 At the beginning, Primack & Abrams promised that "wisdom is possible without omniscience." Having read the book, I am much wiser, having learned that "The history of the universe is n every one of us. Every particle in our bodies has a multibillion-year past, every cell and every bodily organ has a multimillion-year past, and many of our ways of thinking have multithousand-year pasts. Each of us is a kind of nerve center where these various cosmic histories intersect." These are facts to know from this book which interprets our place in the Universe from the perspective of Quantum Physics, Relativity and Cosmology. At the end, though, I'm left somewhat flat, I guess I expected some global solution or something that would alleviate the day-by-day reach for "sustainable prosperity." Unfortunately, according to Primack & Abrams, this cannot be created by an "act of will." Darn! But in the end, it is good to know that from a "cosmic viewpoint, it doesn't matter who our recent ancestors were. Our distant ancestors are what everyone on Earth shares." Having studied Metaphysics, Mysticism, Spirituality & following religious principles, this last insight gives me comfort that my cocktail in search for truth is leading me down the right path: walking from the center of my being and doing simple acts of love for another each day."
5 This is a wonderful book. I am not going to reveiw it here. I think every human now on Earth should read this book. I would like to send copies to Mr. Bush and Mr. Ahmadinejad. It is not a diatribe against religion but rather a scientific romance with ourselves and the story of our incredible journey through the vastness of time and space. When we hear someone say that God created the universe what are they actually saying? Saying that God created the universe tells me nothing. How we got here through aeons of time and the immensity of space is quite a story. A story that we should all know.From the book:"Cosmology is a branch of Astronomy and astrophysics that studies the origin and nature of the universe, and it is in the midst of a scientific revolution that is establishing its lasting foundations. What is emerging is humanity's first picture of the universe as a whole that might actually be true. There have been countless myths of the origin of the universe, but this is the first one that no storyteller made up--we are all witnesses on the edges of our seats."The authors do argue that we are part of a kind of cosmic lottery with life emerging by chance. They remind us that we have hit the jackpot really and are in some sense fundamental to the meaning of the universe. It is up to us to give it meaning. I do not fully agree with the random jackpot explanation. Paul Davies the rather emininent cosmologist from Arizona State university also posits the idea of a cosmic jackpot but he adds a thought that I think is important to make. Human life, as such, may not have been 'planned' but the life principle itself was etched within the physical laws of the universe. Perhaps this explains why the universe is so vast and the time scales for human evolution are so great. The appearance of life is so unlikely that it needs vast time scales and vast spaces through which to roll the dice. Life is achingly rare and precious.One thing is clear...we are all children of the Big Bang. Time to end all the religous angst and hatred. Science tells the true story of who we are and where we came from. It is time to enfold our ancient mythologies into the emerging story of mankind.Ultimately science cannot answer the question of why the universe was created. It can answer the question of how it was created for that is the purview of science. Not that scientists have not taken a stab at the why. Paul Davies has recently posited the notion that the universe is a kind of random jackpot with the life principle etched into the laws of physics. So science takes its best shot and tells us that we are here by random chance. That is not to say that Random chance is the only and overarching explanation but that it is simply an aspect of a much greater mystery. Random chance may just be part of the answer.
5 A great reference for someone interested in but doesn't understand physics. I like to have it on hand to refer back to parts that I want to remember and to re-read to better understand the cosmos!
4 This is very informative and interesting. It's description of modern cosmological knowledge is well written, informative yet comprehensible to the non-scientist reader. Also, the goal it explicitly sets is a good one, and the authors reasons for setting it are explained well, if not thoroughly. The one flaw is that the goal is not achieved within the book. Perhaps the authors only intended to point readers toward the vision, so that a broader consensus or range of opinion might be achieved, but I personally would have preferred an offering of something more complete and explicit. This is a book I wish everyone would read. We (meaning mankind) are entering a new age of civilization, and we need to begin thinking along entirely new lines. This book is a good beginning toward that end.
3 In their attempt to present the science of cosmology to their readers, the co-authors have done a decent job of presenting the facts; but it's the syle I object to. I found it repetitive and a little too "golly, gee whiz".
4 This book attempts to place current advances in cosmology into a modern mythology that would restore the central importance to human beings in the scientific view of the world. Many readers will find this a little flakey, particularly where the argument is thin (Kabbala). But I found it thought provoking and very well written. Even if you are a hard core science buff you might find this worth your time because the author studied with Marcea Eliade at Chicago. Very original and very thoughtful in my opinion.There is nothing like it on the market that I know of worth reading.  I think it may find a solid readership in time.In addition, this book benefits from having been written for a humanities course given at Santa Cruz. This may be the best introduction to modern cosmology in that it takes the time to clarify fundamental points about dark energy and matter and aspects of inflation that are often bungled in better known and more sophisticated texts. It is clear that the authors have spent a lot of time answering questions from confused students. The care is appreciated; I wish more of these texts were so well edited. An excellent place to start. It comes with a strong recommendation from Paul Davies whose recent Cosmic Jackpot is also excellent.
1 Tens of thousands of books are published every year: few of them sell more than a couple of thousand copies at best. Sometimes you come across a book from a "name" publisher and wonder why the manuscript wasn't tossed into the wastbasket. This is one of those books.This book is filled with New Age nostrums. "Let's visit the cosmic sphere tht contains our neighborhood - the center of our visible universe." (By the way, Leo Tolstoi visited this neighborhood in the 19th Century in his "The Kingdom of God is Within You.") More great advice from Primack and Abrams, the husband-wife team that claims great new cosmological insights: "Movement becomes a mere idea. There is no visible way to detect it, only the tricky conciousness of time passing." Here's another gem: "The Cosmic Las Vegas metaphor illustrates trhe random, quantum nature of eternal inflation, but it gives no sense of what the theory of eternal inflation could mean if it is true." Yeah. Sure.Reciting every mawkish statement in this pretentious tome would take as much space as the book itself. As a final example, how about "We represent  an age on Earth comparable to the age of cosmic inflation at the beginning of the universe: brief, but about to set the pattern for the long-term future. . . . For our entire species, today matters."This New Age gruel is served up as a plea for scientific thinking. It is anything but. It is a feel-good tract on how special you are, much like the character in the classic Saturday Night Live sketch.Greater good could have been done by saving the trees sacrificed for the paper the nonsensical nostrums of Priamck and Abrams are printed on.Jerry
4 Reconciling the scientific with the religious is a dialogue we need to enliven. This book does just that; straight on with no apologies. The core idea of changing our metaphors is one which may take generations to accomplish. It may take generations just to understand. Are we meaningless protoplasm floating on a random sea of cosmic coincidence? I've never felt that way either religiously or scientifically. This book gives credence to my feelings.I recommend this book to all intelligent lay readers of science with a spiritual depth to them. The dialogue we open up will be valuable for eons to come.
5 If you love books about the cosmos and our place in it then read this book. I absolutely loved its scientific rigour, its vision and humanism. I have read many books in the past that fill bookshops science shelves and I would put this at number one. Joel Primack is a professor of Physics in California and Nancy Abrams, his wife, is a lawyer and science and history scholar.Their book is truly inspiring.
5 This publication is meant for lay people and scientists. It educates and enlightens.Science is at the root of cosmology but it turns out that Mythology isas well simply because some truths are so large and mysterious that they cannot bedescribed in purely scientific terms. Metaphorical language must be employed to wrap  our minds around the concepts of the beginnings of the universe and how wehave become the human race that we know today.This book is written in terms that most of us understand. This awesome task iscarried out by an intelligent couple that is made up of a lawyer and a scientist.You will thank them for their awe inspiring work and feel that at last you knowwhere you came from.Joe Santiago MD
5 I highly recommend this book.  The science is authoritative and it is very well written.  The authors beautifully allow the science to flow into perspective and inspiration.
4 Who of us, as a child, did not look up at the night sky and wonder about its vastness, whether it had limits to its size and, if so, what was on the other side of its boundaries?It is these "Big Questions" which are at the center of this book's exploration.  But it does not present just the answers that science has been providing over a very rich period in cosmological exploration.  It moves to a deeper level--what do these emerging discoveries say about the human experience.From earliest recorded history, people have formulated stories about creation, the nature of reality, how to live in accordance with reality and to what end.  These formed the myths of various religions, the speculations of philosophy and now the explorations of science.  All of these pursuits addressed the question of meaning.The authors bring an ideal blend of backgrounds to look at the question of meaning from a new perspective.  Joel Primack is a physicist specializing in cosmology.  He coined the phrase "cold, dark matter" to describe the relatively recent discovery that 95 percent of the universe is comprised of dark matter and dark energy--invisible to observation.  In fact, the visible universe is comprised of only slightly more than one-half of one percent.  Nancy Abrams is a lawyer and science policy writer with a background in history and philosophy.Their central point is that all historical cultures developed "stories" to answer the questions of origination and purpose.  "Ours is probably the first major culture in human history with no shared picture of reality."And the consequence of this lack is an uncertainty and confusion leading to what they call the existential or skeptical view of the universe.  This view was famously summed up by physicist Steven Weinberg: "The more the universe seems comprehensible--the more it seems pointless."In contrast, these authors propose that the greatest and most accurate "story" that has been developed is precisely the one that modern cosmology and astrophysics has provided.  It is a perspective that provides a deeper meaning the more fully it is understood."Though we know far better than the ancients what the universe is made of, we have far less sense of what it might mean for us; we lack images and stories that can connect us to this new universe.  A central goal of this book is to begin to provide some images by which we can visualize our universe--not random fragments of it, which we all that even the most stunning NASA astronomical photos give us, but its fundamental nature.To provide this understanding, they present this story from both historical and scientific perspectives.  The cosmologies of ancient Egypt, the Bible, early Greece, and Alexandria are reviewed.  Then they present a summary of the scientific cosmology that has emerged over the last few centuries.  Their point is that the new cosmology is even more awe inspiring and beautiful than the traditional mythologies.  And rightly understood it provides meaning and purpose to the human experience.But the book is not the only way they are attempting to tell this story.  They have developed a website with additional resources on the subject at [...]Of particular note is the video of a presentation presented in 2006 at the NASA Research Park.  (Find on the Links page.)  It presents their central ideas in a multimedia format with stunning pictures from the Hubble Space Telescope and a Voyage to the Virgo Cluster.This book is an important step towards the articulation of a new story for out times.  It is built upon the incredible advancement in our understanding of the universe that has been gained from the first Copernican revolution to the Hubble telescope.  It is a story more awesome than humans could ever devise on their own, for it is indeed the story of the universe itself.We uphold the new universe--but only if we too, like the ancients, consciously do uphold it in our thoughts and actions.  The way to uphold the universe is to embrace scientific reality to the extent the evidence supports it, and commit ourselves as a culture to develop its meaning collectively.
5 When I first came to these reviews, the only one was entitled "Physics Fluff", gave the book one star, and panned it based on "I flipped through this book at a bookstore and then read the Publisher's Weekly review." Having just heard Primack and Abrams speak on the book at a Stanford Physics Department Colloquium and been very impressed, I worried that people might miss the important messages they convey because of such negative comments based on a cursory review of the materials. While I am only a few chapters into the book and would normally wait to write a review (though I did hear the authors' 90 minute talk which summarizes their work), I feel it necessary to immediately counter an impression based on an even less thorough reading.Primack has dared to explore territory where few scientists venture. (Abrams is an attorney, writer and poet, so we scientists expect her to be a bit strange - and probably wrong.) Primack and Abrams have written a book that weaves a tale of science, myth, and ethics. Mixing soft subjects with the hard sciences goes against religious doctrine - scientific religious doctrine, that is. And, as with most religions, this dogmatic approach is usually invisible to its adherents. Even though the authors are careful to distinguish the hard science from the softer areas, this is a dangerous mixture to introduce into a scientific culture.For example, at the Physics Department Colloquium I attended, this problem was manifested during the Q&A; period following the talk. People asked only about neutrinos, cosmic expansion, how we can see objects 40 billion light years away when the Universe is only 15 billion years old, etc. Primack the physicist answered all these questions expertly, while Abrams the poet stood largely mute and ignored although she had had equal time during the talk and had hit on a number of critical points - but all on the "soft" side. I racked my brain trying to come up with a question that would draw attention to the truths she had voiced and that would be appropriate in this temple of science, but could not. Instead, when I was recognized, I stated that conundrum and lamented the fact that we limit ourselves in this manner. That at least brought some recognition to Abrams' contribution and the problem we face.In this book, there is something much deeper underlying all the wonderful cosmological physics that is beautifully explained. We live at a critical time and the fate of the earth hangs in the balance as our technological progress far outstrips our social and moral development. While to my mind, this is a scientifically established fact (e.g., see [...] other scientists will disagree.This is not the place to argue whether or not the larger worldview espoused by Primack and Abrams, and to which I subscribe, is correct. Rather, I encourage you to read their excellent book, with one proviso. If it makes you mad to see science discussed outside of a narrow box of numbers and equations, as I suspect was the case for the reviewer mentioned above, do not read this book. There is enough anger in the world already.But if you truly believe there is one Universe as opposed to art and science each inhabiting separate worlds (even though it is extremely difficult for our intellects to see their connection), then I heartily recommend this book. If you are scientifically trained, you may still, as I did, occasionally get a queasy feeling and want to cry out "Hey wait! How can they say that?" But, if you keep an open mind, more often than not, the second part of that interjection will be answered in a way that opens new vistas. Even in the few chapters I have read thus far, I have been well rewarded with new ideas and viewpoints.P.S. While the audience at the Colloquium asked only hard science questions and largely ignored Abrams during the Q&A;, the large stack of books that the Stanford Bookstore had on sale afterward sold very well. Also, many people came up and asked her questions after the formal Q&A; was completed. So there is more hope than that story might first indicate.P.P.S. I have since finished the book and stand by my earlier review, above. No changes were needed. The only thing I would add is that I learned some very interesting physics from the book. For example, it presents a very simple and understandable explanation for why physicists now believe that the majority of matter in the universe is "dark matter."
4 This book is an excellent introduction to cosmology. It describes our place in space and time from a scientific standpoint, but in such a way that someone not very engrossed in the sciences can understand.The book starts with a brief overview of the scientific process and how it is used to describe our world and our reality. It then goes on to describe the cosmologies of several ancient civilizations (Egyptian, Greek, etc.), how they were formed, and what relevance they have for developing our scientific cosmology today.After a quick tour of the past, the book goes into describing our universe as we know it today. Questions like, What's the universe made of?, How big is the universe?, and How did the universe begin? are answered in this chapter. This book really does a great job of describing the myriad of abstract ideas that are needed to envision our strange and wondrous universe. Although the facts stated in the book are the result of years of rigorous research, the authors have brilliantly turned scientific results into eloquent and accessible prose. Through metaphors and pictures, they convey the magnitude and intricacy of the universe with unprecedented poise.While describing our universe, the authors also describe our place in it. The main message of this book is that we and the universe are not separate--'we are not outside observers, nor are we simply IN the universe: we are PART of the universe, and more than that, we are a meaningful part of the universe. For instance, when we learn about the creation of the universe, we learn that we are the result of ~14 billion years of cosmic evolution. We learn that we are at the center of the cosmic spheres of time, that we are made of the rarest kinds of material, and that we are just the right size for our kind of intelligence. We are truly at the center of the universe.In the final chapter of the book, we learn what we can do with this newfound knowledge and viewpoint. As meaningful beings in space and time, it is our duty to think and act on a grander scale. In this way and in this way only can we possibly hope to create change and benefit our existence as a species for the long term. This is what I like most about this book: it not only feeds us valuable information, but it shows us how it is useful. By thinking cosmologically and acting globally, we can create the change we desire.This book does an excellent job acknowledging that science and religion are not necessarily at odds. By giving meaning to the data that represents our universe, in a sense we fuse the metaphysical significance of religion with the dryness of pure scientific facts. Thus they work together to answer the same questions, giving us a renewed and rational sense of purpose. The authors tell us what they believe God is, but are not trying to impose any religion (or lack of religion) on the reader.In the end, I would have liked to see more explanation about the esoteric scientific theories'--namely String Theory and Eternal Inflation--'which were both introduced rather vaguely, but I guess that's what other books are for, right? Also, at times I thought that the writing seemed kind of pretentious (although not overly imposing). Finally, although the last chapter inspires us to use this 'Center of the Universe' viewpoint to initiate lasting change, it fails to give us concrete examples of how to integrate it into our daily lives.Overall, this book is a great introduction'--an introduction, but little more'--to our universe and our unique place in space and time. The book covers a wide range of topics, so it's likely that there is something in this book that you will find new, inspiring, or at least interesting. The writing is understandable by almost anyone. Pick it up, learn a lot, and enjoy!
5 Leading scientists and journalists have already praised VIEW FROM THE CENTER OF THE UNIVERSE: DISCOVERING OUR EXTRAORDINARY PLACE IN THE COSMOS: so what does this mean to the average reader who likes science? Plenty: for one thing it comes from an esteemed scientist and a lawyer and writer, so it combines technical prowess with readability for lay readers. The idea here is that the concept of the universe as a vast, impersonal space is outdated: the perspective here offers a human-centered cosmology, using the latest findings in astrophysics to back up the new approach to human-centered symbolism and how the universe as a whole is emerging. Any who've read the usual cosmological survey will see how unusual anidea is presented in VIEW OF THE UNIVERSE - the approach changes everything.Diane C. DonovanCalifornia Bookwatch
5 Sorry but no time for a long, scholarly review.  That said, this book, which marries physics, cosmology and philosophy really IS a VERY insightful read about the place of humans in the LARGER scheme of things....like in the larger universe as a whole.  It's written by a physicist and his VERY insightful spouse and makes an impressive attempt to place our species into a meaningful "place" in the universe as a whole.  I heartily recommend this book.  It's not an "easy" read, but it's well worth the effort.
4 I find this to be a very difficult book to review.  It is actually two books that may appeal to different readers.  The first section of the book, which takes up about a quarter of the book, deals with topics like creation myths and the evolution of scientific thought.  The second section, which encompasses half the book, deals with the scientific view of the universe.  The final section (one quarter of the book) is titled the meaningful universe.I purchased this book because of the middle scientific section.  It clarified many points for me and was worth the price of the book.  It is a completely non-mathematical treatment of modern cosmology.  It is highly readable and I now understand why we can consider ourselves at the center of our visible universe (as can every other point in the universe).  I have always been puzzled as to why, even though initially the universe was microscopic is size, that light from the early universe (whose wavelength has increased to the microwave range due to the expansion of space), has taken 13 billion years to reach us.  This part of the book has given me a much better feeling of why this is so.  According to the cosmic inflation model, the universe was initially expanding faster than the speed of light (which is allowed for, but not for things in space) and the universe has continued to expand while the light was moving towards us.  There is a good discussion of dark energy and dark matter and why they makeup almost all of the mass in the universe.  Cosmology has recently become an incredibly fast moving field.  This book was published in 2006, so it covers topics like dark matter and dark energy.  In contrast, a book published in 1996 would not cover these topics.The middle of the book should appeal to those who want an overview of modern cosmology and I recommend it as such, but such a reader might not be interested in the first and third sections of the book.  I found the first section interesting, but I found the third section to be unfocused and uninteresting.  All in all I enjoyed only about half the book, hence I can give it only four stars. (Also note, the hard cover version of this book is available as a bargain book and is a better deal than the soft cover version.)Note - I have just finished Brian Greene's "The Fabric of the Cosmos", which covers some of the same topics.  Greene does a much better job of explaining why some of the statements made in "the View from the Center of the Universe" are so and if I could only recommend only one of these books it would be Greene's.
4 This is a visionary book that sets out to change the world by changing how we see our place in the universe, by re-examining attitudes about the metaphors and stories used to describe the universe and our place in it. Instead of seeing ourselves in entrenched Newtonian existential terms (a small rock circling a small star in an average galaxy in a nearly infinite scale universe where nothing that humans do matters in the big picture like a lone plankton floating in the ocean), the authors re-position earth and humans to a central importance, supported by the latest science findings. Incredibly, they make a convincing case, and along the way educate the reader about the latest scientific findings in cosmology.The idea of mans centrality to the universe has been the norm for most of history - the medieval model, Egyptian cosmology, etc.. all saw man and earth at the center of the universe - the first third of the book discusses this. It was with Newtonian physics that our place in the center was over-turned. But incredibly in the past 10-15 years its become apparent we really are at the center - depending on your perspective, as discussed in the middle portion of the book - 1)We are made of the rarest material in the universe (visible matter) 2) We live in the center of a "Cosmic Sphere of Time" (every point in the universe is physically in the middle because there is no middle of the universe) 3) We live in a mid-point of time - most nearby galaxy's are middle age 4) We live in the middle of all possible sizes - there are 14 orders of magnitude difference between the smallest and largest, we are in the middle 5) We live at the mid-point in the age of our planet. 6) We live at a turning point for our species when population and environmental questions are raising serious questions about sustainability.The last third of the book becomes more subjective about going forward into the future how we can change our attitude about the universe to be more optimistic and meaningful: "The choice of attitude is not a casual one.. cosmology is not a game it has the power to overturn fundamental institutions of society.. Once we made this mental shift and opened our eyes to the view from the center of the universe.. it evoked the opposite emotions from the existential stance-not despair but hope, not resignation but excitement. These may be arbitrary emotions, but they lead to non-arbitrary actions."
4 This is a very informative book. It talks about the history of what humans used to believe about the universe and the most recent discoveries of our day. It can get complicated and at times tedious to read but I would suggest it to anyone interested in the universe's workings and in science.
3 This book is really several books, two of which are quite good, and the third of which has major limitations. Part One of the book summarizes some traditional myths about the nature of the universe from different Western cultures. Part Two of the book is an informed, well-written summary of current scientific theories of the makeup, shape, size, and origin of the universe. Part Three tries to argue that these theories can give greater meaning to human life.Parts One and Two are quite good. I believe most readers will gain a great deal of knowledge both about various cultures' myths about the universe, and modern scientific theories of the universe. I particularly liked the discussion in Part Two about how what is scientifically true depends upon the scale one is considering, and how this helps explain why many modern theories of physics are quite counter-intuitive: human intuition is made to deal with the human scale, and not the scales of quarks or galactic super-clusters.Part Three is strained. Primack and Abrams want to somehow argue that modern theories of cosmology somehow give greater meaning and direction to human lives. I don't think they make a good case for this argument. They argue that modern cosmology shows that we are "central" to the universe, which is supposed to give us more of a sense of meaning. However, they use "central" in such a vague way that this isn't very convincing. We are told that we are "central" because we are made of rare elements and because we live in a rare bubble of space-time. So, being unusual is here defined as being "central". We also are told that we are central because we are at the middle of all sizes, in that the ratio of human sized to the minimum Planck length is of similar order of magnitude to the ratio of the size of our universe to human size. So here we are central because we are at a geometric midpoint. We are also told we are central because we are at the midpoint in the life of our planet, and the midpoint of the portion of the life of the universe in which many galaxies are visible. So here, centrality is an arithmetic midpoint in time, in which the endpoints are somewhat arbitrarily chosen. (Why wouldn't we consider the life of the universe after dark energy has moved most galaxies beyond what we can see?) We are also central because we are at the center of the universe visible to us, which also would be true at all other points in our universe. So, centrality is used in so many different senses that I think the term loses any meaning. Finally, why should we care if we are central in any of these senses of that term? I don't see why being rare, or at a geometric midpoint in size, or arithmetic midpoint in time, gives some great inherent meaning to human life.Also in Part Three, Primack and Abrams seems to want to make an argument that the nature of the universe somehow gives a guide to what we should be trying to do with human society. So, because the universe initially inflated, and then slowed down to a more moderate expansion, this somehow is supposed to provide support for the notion that economic growth needs to slow down to avoid overusing resources. Whatever the case to be made for humans to do a better job of conserving scarce resources that are inadequately protected by the private market, such as ecosystems or the global climate - and I certainly agree we need to do a better job - I don't think that this policy issue has anything to do with cosmological theories. They also seem to imply that once we recognize the extremely long past and future life of the universe,  that this will somehow point to the need for human society to take a longer-term perspective. Again, I agree that our society could benefit from a longer term perspective, but I doubt whether the case for our society taking a longer-term perspective depends upon the universe being 14 billion years old, with at least that long to go.So, in the end, this book overreaches. When it sticks to what the authors know something about, which is different theories of the universe, it is quite good. When it tries to use this knowledge to help guide current human actions, the book is disappointing.
4 The book's thesis in a nutshell: Human Beings Matter, and Need to do Something Positive About It.  I can't imagine anyone wanting to quarrel with that central thrust of this rock-solid tome.  I also can't imagine it 'converting' anyone.  Artists, philosophers, mythmakers, and visionaries are already convinced, always have been, always will be.  [In particular, the book almost totally ignores science fiction, a category of art which has always known the importance of the human being.]  The vast population left after subtracting those categories is very unlikely to be swayed from their indifference by being assured that they dwell at the center of the universe--something they already selfishly suspected anyway.  [The authors' concern over existential malaise seems temporally displaced by about fifty years or more anyway.]The scope of this book is enormous.  What the authors have tried to do here is no less than provide a blueprint for saving human civilization from itself, by pointing our consciousness toward a scientifically-responsible view of ourselves and our place in time and space.  I am reminded a bit of Rachel Carson's book The Silent Spring, in that the authors are trying very hard to convince us of the folly of our ways.  I doubt, however, that this book will have anywhere near the impact that that one did.  For one thing, Joel R. Primack and Nancy Ellen Abrams seem so very restrained as to be almost emotionless, whereas Carson's book was impassioned, and stirred passions [and controversy] in its readers.  I can well imagine that any one reader's most heartfelt response to View from the Center of the Universe might be a medium-sized sigh.Nevertheless, it's well written, well thought out, and well organized.  The material presented falls rather neatly into three rather distinct parts, each one building on the last.  The mini-icons that the authors present for our edification are cute and memorable, and actually do help.  Their conclusions are unsassailable.Yet something is seriously missing.  [Or, to put it another way, by quoting the old song, There's a Hole in the Bucket.]The missing ingredient is any conscious acknowledgement on the part of the authors of the importance in modern culture of Eastern Philosophies.  [What we think of as Western Philosophy owes a great deal to the Mid-East of course, and is thus misnamed, but what used to be called Oriental Philosophy before that adjective became a bad word is now usually referred to as Asian or Eastern Philosophy, so I'll stick with a variation of that in spite of its inaccuracy.]The entire construct of philosophical foundation-formation in this book assumes that 'reality' is 'real.'  There's not a hint of doubt that what we observe in the observable universe really is 'there.'  Yet anyone who has ever read Robert Pirsig or Fritjof Capra knows that one of the fundamental underpinnings of Far-Eastern Philosphy is the notion that 'reality is an illusion.'  Many scientists, as well as many science-fiction authors, subscribe in whole or in part to this view, which increasingly these days has strong evidenciary support.  It is the cornerstone of much of spiritual insight and discussion nowadays.  Yet the authors of this book wholly ignore it.  It isn't even dismissed-- it's simply not even acknowledged as a possible viewpoint.  [Chapter upon chapter is spent talking about the relative merits of Newton, Galileo, and Kepler, and not once is Lao Tsu so much as thought about.]  If Pirsig's contention that civilization went wrong at Socrates has any validity at all [which I'm convinced it does], then the entire edifice of observation on which Primack and Abrams construct the arguments in this book come crashing down, leaving merely well-reasoned rubble.  It totally mystifies me that one of the co-authors, described on the dust jacket as a member of the Committee on Science, Ethics, and Religion of the American Association for the Advancement of Science can just simply ignore any philosophical or religious viewpoint that originated east of the Persian Gulf, in an area that happens to contain only about four-fifths of the total population of the world!Yet I do recommend the book, with reservations.  It may indeed have an unnecessarily narrow view, but, that being said, the way it handles the material within its purview does indeed create something worthwhile, even mildly inspiring.  I just wish that in their effort to encompass the whole universe, they had managed at least to capture the whole planet!
1 On the science, Steven Hawking and Leonard Mlodinow's The Grand Design is much better. As to the mysticism, the book is pure hogwash. What's bothersome is that the authors attempt to legitimize the mysticism with scientific expertise.
4 This book mines the seam between cosmology and faith and develops a thesis that we should have faith in what's demonstrably real.  Much simplified, when our existence is considered relative to other size scales, cosmology shows that we occupy a special place in the Universe and thus hold a special responsibility to ourselves to act not on mythic belief but in accord with proven reality.  As I read this book, I kept wondering whether it was conceived as an antidote to those who seemingly believe that the Earth is theirs to trash (politically or otherwise) since in a merely mythical way, the end is nigh.  I'm not sure it accomplishes that worthy goal, but it was a very interesting, accessible read nonetheless and quite enjoyable.  The older I get, the more time I spend wondering about matters of science and religion.  Primack and Abrams have created some wonderful metaphors to illustrate that logic and faith are not mutually exclusive.
4 This book was very interesting.  It is about a young man who constantly changes identity after each overdose due to a headache he gets every year or so, which causes him to be placed under psychiatric evaluation.  What made me buy this book is that Cuck Palahniuk said it was the best book he's read in at least 5 years, and I figured I would like it as well.  It was an interesting read, a very quick read as well.  It gave great insight into the main character, and it had a lot of twists and turns.  While it wouldn't pass for one of Chuck's better novels, it still kept my attention long enough and was better than the books I had read recently.  A great debut for an up and coming author, and I would recommend it to people who want to read something new and different.  He is a master forger, and it creates all sorts of opportunities and problems for him.  Good read.
2 The Contortionist's Handbook, Craig Clevenger's first novel, is a weird, complicated, seemingly pointless exercise in futility.  The novel follows John Dolan, who is known by many other names throughout the book, because that is what he does, he changes his identity, and others, with great expertise and perfection.  We are introduced to John when he wakes up from a headache that he refers to as a "godsplitter" in a hospital, and he is forced to undergo a psychiatric evaluation to determine if he is suicidal or depressed.  From that point, the novel divides its time between the interview between John and the Evaluator and giving us John's life story, which is remarkably uninteresting for such a weird tale.The thing that gets me about this book is that it seemingly has no point.  I guess one could say its point to be "anti-psychiatry," but forgive me for asking that the author also include somewhat of a plot to at least make the story interesting.  The only interesting and entertaining part of the novel is the interaction between John and the Evaluator.  But, for some reason, Clevenger decides that John's life story is more important, even though we are only given a brief, fleeting glimpse into a life that seems to be much more complicated than the author wanted to put into the novel.  Don't get me wrong, I am not complaining about the novel's length, because I don't think I would have finished it if it was longer than it already is.I also read Clevenger's second novel, Dermaphoria, a while ago, and while I didn't really enjoy it, the novel at least had some semblance of a story that made it worth reading.  As this novel grew closer and closer to ending, I slowly realized that there was no way that any meaning was going to be given to the convoluted story within the last 20 pages.  Clevenger tries to inject some suspense into the story near the end, but he ends up just using underdeveloped characters to do things that we have no idea what their motivation is for doing.  I think that Clevenger could be a good writer, but, dear Lord, he needs to try writing a "normal" novel, until I read about one of his novels, and it isn't about a drugged out freak or a mentally unstable counterfeiter, I think that I am pretty much done giving his novels the benefit of the doubt.
3 Overall the book had the same quotability as 'Dermaphoria', however I felt the ending was a bit rushed and haphazard.  Still, I will undoubtedly say Clevenger is one of the most quotable writers of this generation.
3 I heard for years what a great book this was but in the end it was decent. Not amazing, though it certainly was a page-turner at first. I found the ending to be a little too contrived and wrapped up too neatly for this sort of book, but it was still a good read.
5 Loved this book, a real page turner, they've got to put this back into print.
5 I'll be honest, I don't remember why I loved this book. I just did. I picked this up based solely on the fact that Chuck Palahniuk recommended it and I was NOT disappointed. I believe this was Clevenger's first novel and he definitely hit a home run with it. I often lend this book to friends and neighbors and each of them have been impressed.
5 Clevenger almost wound up as one of those guys I'd wish people would stop prattling on and on about."So brilliant.""Such a genius."And I was so incredibly sick of hearing it."Dermaphoria" was what I ended up cutting me teeth on regarding his work, and I must admit, I found myself struggling through it and wondering what all the fuss was about.That didn't stop me from picking up TCH when I finally found a copy for under $40, or more specifically, when MacAdam/Cage finally pulled their heads out of their a$$es and decided to give the book another print run. A movie deal and high demand can do that.Nonetheless, my expectations were considerably low, and so the following read pertaining to an identity-shifting expert with an extra finger was that much more of a pleasant surprise. Palahniuk said, "...the best book I've read in five years. Easily. Maybe even ten years," and I'm inclined to agree.Clevenger spins a web of lies and identity crisis so complex, it's a wonder that the reader doesn't get lost in the details of how to fake a birth certificate or SR-22, but the author never shakes you...not unless he wants to. In TCH, we see John Dolan Vincent pitted up against "The Evaluator" for his freedom after an overdose, the story alternating between this battle of wits, tells, and intellect, and the seedy past of this protagonist of how he came use a deformity to his advantage. It reads similar to Palahniuk: minimalist with loads of factual information regarding the trade of forgery (we've seen this before with Jack and explosives in "Fight Club"), but unlike the one and two-star reviews on Amazon where Clevenger is ostracized for being a rip-off, it's obvious to me that the author has made this style his own within the neo-noir genre.Simply put, I see the influence, but nothing that would make me believe Craig wrote this thinking, "What would Chuck do?" And perhaps this is why his second novel turned out so different from his first...to distance himself from the name, the legacy, the style.I wish he would return to it.TCH is one of those books that when I put it down, I knew I'd read it again at least eight more times. I can't recommend it enough.
5 Interesting storyline - highly intelligent con artist tries to outwit a clinical psychologist to avoid being institutionalized after being found in a drug-induced coma.  Good plot, interesting characters, yes.  But it's author Craig Clevenger's razor-sharp, deftly crafted writing that keeps you hooked into the novel.  Want to see how a great writer writes a great novel in only 199 pages?  Read "The Contortionist's Handbook."  Nothing wasted here.  Just a great, great read.
5 I was surprised by how much I actually enjoyed this book. Clevenger uses a very interesting and refreshing premise for this book. John Vincent (main character) is someone who makes the reader thankful that they are not in his position, but still makes the reader sympathetic for what Vincent has gone through in his life. Craig Clevenger shows serious talent for writing and I am looking forward to reading other novels of his. Overall, "A" grade for this selection.
5 Only for the fact that I'll never be able to write this well.  I like the imagery and the way he manipulates the English language and &quot;contorts&quot; it into something other than what we're used to.  A lot of work went into this, and it shows.  He makes every sentence count and the story was paced well and organized perfectly.  I read the damn thing in one night, which is something I never, ever do.  This book is in my top five.
4 I just finished this book of the above name, by Craig Clevenger. I read it pretty much purely because Chuck Palaniuk told me to. Kinda. He said this about it several years ago, "I swear to God this is easily the best book I've read in 5 years. Easily. Maybe 10 years." I have a hunch that Chuck is actually friends with Craig and was just being extra friendly by saying this in order to sell more copies, as Chuck has a much larger fan base. And the thing is: his fans listen to what he says. They listen for his inspirations, and then they check them out. I am a living example of this. This is in fact the third book I've read that Palahniuk mentioned enjoying, and he's only steered me wrong once (Monica Drake's 'Clown Girl')Anyway, the book is from 2002, and is Clevenger's debut novel. It follows a young man through the 70's and 80's who evades the law (and the many State psychiatrists he has to bluff) by continuously changing his identity. Keep in mind, this is taking place before computer database systems for individual records, so the ways he comes up with to forge documents and renew his identity are delightfully clever. He is somewhat of a stoic, and lives a broken, edgy, drug- and alcohol-riddled life. Oh yes, and there's some strippers/hookers involved, which is apparently a requirement for an `edgy' novel.Without giving too much away, the main character (whose real name you don't really know until about halfway through) gets horrifically bad migraines that last for days at a time. He keeps ending up in rehab and under psychiatric evaluation because he overdoses multiple times trying to stop the pain of these headaches. This is when things get interesting, because he's a `different person' each time he interviews with a psychiatric employee of the State.I won't go into any more than that, but the overall intrigue of the book is definitely how clever the main character and his methods are. Certain novels give me the sense that the author is just simply... smart, and knows how to write smart; this is one of those. In a sense, it almost has an Ocean's 11-esque quality in that it takes you behind the scenes of a deceptive crime, though it's not nearly as lighthearted. The writing is very good in a simplistic way; not trying too hard to be over-loaded with deep or reverential adjectives, but well-crafted enough to keep you vividly in the moment and very interested in the surroundings. The character is definitely likable, though his motives can be, at times, a little difficult to define or point out.I don't know if it's the actual graphic layout of the physical book, but something about the publishing quality seems a little... flimsy. You know when you can almost tell something has been done cheaply, or on a low budget? That's how the layout and outside cover seem to me. Though the writing quality itself does not at all seem unprofessional or amateur. Maybe he just had a bad graphic designer or a publisher with no money. I only mention this because I find it interesting and it stood out to me.If you enjoy authors like Chuck Palahniuk or Bret Easton Ellis, this would probably be right up your alley, and I would recommend the book even to those unfamiliar with the aforementioned names. There's some interesting things to be found in here.
5 Well thought-out debut by Clevenger. An amazingly quick read, but extremely thorough. Clevenger writes about a character who is invisible but wholly full of life.  A brilliant description of what society does to its genuises.
5 I give this 4.5 stars because there was a small element missing. I couldn't quite identify it, but the book was awesome nonetheless. This is a gripping character study about a guy who keeps overdosing on drugs and has to talk his way out of the psych ward and change his identity to stay out of an institution. Clevenger's portrayal of the pysch interview was stellar. The way he wove the story in throughout the interview was brilliant. Some of the scenes are graphic, but they are brief enough that its not bothersome to more sensitive readers. It's a one day, two sitting reading. The only reason I put the book down was to eat lunch. Definitely looking forward to his next book, already on my Kindle.-- Emma D, aka Anna Zimmerman
5 I've finished Craig Clevenger's The Contortionist's Handbook. I say finished because I stopped with fifteen pages left and (this is not a diss) I'm not reading the end because I want to let it ride for a while. I kind of think I know what's going to happen and I think it will hurt and I'll be heart-broken, so I want to let things be the way they are for a while (in my mind). I know that is a bit weird. Clevenger is my current favorite writer, so I'm allowed to do stuff like this. It's like not calling your friend when you know they're waiting for your call but they know and you know it's okay because of your strange never ending relationship.I went ahead and finished it two days later, and I was right, it did kinda hurt. Clevenger`s depiction of Daniel Fletcher cut`s close to the bone for me because he carried a thread or number of threads that my own brother `Danny`was made of.`Handbook' is sort of like discovering you're in the Led Zeppelin song `Kashmir', licking honey off of the nipples of Isis and having an out of body experience while you're being gang-banged in prison...all at once like.Clevenger is clearly a writer's writer, an alchemist of words. He leaves microfilament molecules of iron in the neck bone of readers after they've paid him a few shillings for a mercifully clean cut.I want to say `noir' somewhere when I think about describing The Contortionist's Handbook, but it isn't fair. Because I think of noir as commercial genre fiction and I can't possible put Clevenger's writing anywhere near that. I'd like to make some sweeping big review statement like, blah blah blah begins and ends with blah blah blah of what Clevenger is doing. And if I were educated enought to be that pompous and cloyingly aesthetic, I'd probably end up being right.If I start somewhere in the area of `dark' as a description, I'd be getting somewhere relevant, but once again, dark novels are everywhere and many, most in fact, are replica iterations that take their place in the droste effect of novels disappearing off into the distance. Clevenger's Handbook and Dermaphoria for that matter, do not deserve a place in the droste of the dark either. So I'll call it nigredo.Nigredo is the alchemical term which descibes the fist step of the seeker of the philospher's stone; all materials must be cleansed and cooked to a uniform black matter. The term is also used in Jungian psychology in reference to `dark night of soul'.The importance of distinguishing `dark' writing from `nigredo' is simple. The nigredo comes from those and I believe is primarily sent out to those, who have `walked the walk'. And when those who have walked it come across Clevenger's writing, they immediately join in a shared communion of the nigredo.Thank you Mr. Clevenger for joining us together and giving us one little notch in the big nigredo holster in the sky. And for hitting a bullseye.If you don't get what I mean, you can always go find a nice dark novel. Or you could give up everything you own, go live in an alley and fire up pipes for a few years, join a punk band, promise to have sex with whatever walks for six months, eat from dumpsters, smile when you have no reason to, get down with buddah pain, no, make it all of the above. Then go find a nice dark novel and see what you think.
5 I will not go into what the book is about or what goes on in it.  I am not that type of reviewer.  I borrowed this book from a friend and thought it was well written and the subject matter made it even more interesting, and it just got better and better.  I never write reviews but really loved this book.
5 I first heard about Craig Clevenger on Litreactor.com, and when I saw The Contortionist's Handbook for Kindle at a very low price, I had to get it. What an awesome decision. Clevenger manages to weave a complex story with compelling characters and effectively builds a clear mood in this novel. Great story too, especially for fans of writers like William Gibson or Chuck Palahniuk.  I'm looking forward to reading more from Mr. Clevenger.
4 The polydactyl protagonist of this exceptional novel is working hard to evade everyone, not least himself.  He is a masterful teacher, and this book will take you into the art of false identification (at least I take the book as a valid description) from passports, to birth and death certificates, and all the myriad of data points that converge to define an individual in the modern world.  One of the published reviews on this web site claimed that it suffered from a lack of plot, but I think the review somewhat misses the driving force in this novel -- it is not trying to save his girlfriend, Keara, nor is it trying to trick the &quot;evaluator,&quot;; rather, he's trying to evade himself. We are in the world of &quot;head games&quot; here, so it's a bit wide of the mark to compare this to a Tarrantino action/plot drive.  In this handbook, it is the self on contorted display.
5 A fantastic read, one of the best I've read in years, and I read alot.  A rollercoaster ride through the mind of a very different sort of person then anyone I've ever known.
5 nice ride thru the mental health evaluation process.  most evaluators are as described.  read it on kindle-
5 One of the best books I've read in ages. Brilliant  main character, riveting scenes and a fascinating structure as the story comes into focus backwards. As the story gels, the book becomes impossible to put down. By the end, I was sorry it was over.Hats off to a genius.
4 Clevenger's novel is a captivating tale told by a highly intelligent drifter who was mistaken for either mentally disturbed or retarded as a high school student.  Able to forge any document, to cunningly construct foolproof new identities, our narrator moves through the years as a series of different men.  A criminal organization wants him on their payroll, but he perfers not to work on demand, choosing to wait until his forgeries are iron tight.  Of course, the mobsters aren't likely to take his resignation willingly...The narrator pontificates on the failings on modern psychology, on his ability to outwit any psychological evaluator he faces, on the clues he uses to read others, and the tell-tale clues he avoids to look "normal" when he is being investigated.  He is charming and brilliant.In addition to healthy doses of crime, identity forgeries, drug use, and life on the edge, there is a love story hidden in here.  The end is tantalizingly open to interpretation.  Clevenger has made an excellent literary contribution, and I'll be picking up more of his books.
5 Being a huge Chuck Palahniuk fan, I found out about Craig Clevenger through him. I actually downloaded the book for the Android App and could not stop reading it! Even during a stop at a stop light coming home from work, I would get in a few pages. I definitely plan on reading his other book in the very near future! Highly recommended to all my friends and family. Don't waste your time with cookie-cutter authors whose books are always at Walmart and Target, buy Craig's book today, you will not be disappointed!
4 This book is exactly as it is decribed, and if you are waiting for the next Chuck Palhnniuk book but need something to read right now- this could be the book.The story line is more of a day in the life of Genre, while not realy haveing an obvious plot, the subjects back story unfolds while maintaining an interesting charactor. Unfortunantly I picked up this book having forgot I read it, though it was nice to re-read- I was saddened by the fact that it must not have left a lsating impression on me. The writing is nicely organised and does keep ones interest. It could be frustrating if you were looking for a linear story.
1 HOW NOT TO WRITE A SENTENCE: A Review of The Contortionist's Handbook by Craig ClevengerOf all the many attempts to clone and cash in on "Chuck" Palahniuk's popularity among high-school dropouts, perhaps the silliest is Craig Clevenger's.  Clevenger would be at his happiest if teens chirped and cawed out "Craig!" every time he walked into his local YMCA or video-game parlor (if any such still existed).  To call Clevenger's fiction "juvenile," however, would be to raise his discourse to the level of respectability.  It is worse than juvenile.  It is worse than adolescent.  It is horrifically infantile.  It is goo, goo, goo, and gaa, gaa, gaa.Nonetheless--and this is why I am reviewing his mucksterpiece The Contortionist's Handbook--Clevenger's "work," such as it is, is highly instructive to fledgling writers.  His supremely idiotic fiction exemplifies how NOT to write fictionally.  The Contortionist's Handbook is, seen from this perspective, the photographic negative of Stanley Fish's How to Write a Sentence.  If you parse the sentences of the Great Infantilist, as I will now do, you will learn how NOT to write a sentence.Here are three representative sentences from The Contortionist's Handbook:1. "They were old, watching a religious talk show blare from a black-and-white television the size of a mailbox opening" [157].  "They" are an old couple, proprietors of a run-down hotel.  Am I truly the first person to notice that "blare" is the wrong word?  "To blare" refers to sound only.  And is the television itself really the size of a mailbox opening?  If so, that is a state-of-the-art black-and-white television set!2. "The cobwebs and noise in my head are gone, the word is quiet" [107].  Let us be charitable and assume that Clevenger knows what a comma splice is.  Why tell us that all is nice and mellow in our Antihero's head twice in one sentence, especially since the narrator notified us that the "world feels so RIGHT" one sentence before?  Do I need to mention that it doesn't require very much talent to use "cobwebs" and "head" in the same sentence?3. "Rasputin yowled for attention and licked my face until his sandpaper tongue burned through my stupor" [2].  Now this is a perfectly ghastly sentence.  Do not mix abstract nouns ("attention," "stupor") with concrete imagery.  Do not confuse images: the tongue either feels like sandpaper or it burns, unless it feels like a piece of sandpaper on fire.The Contortionist's Handbook is a transcendently awful book.  This gives the book a certain importance in a negative galaxy: a galaxy in which everything that is bad in our galaxy is good.  I praise Clevenger for pressing and even surpassing the limits of badness, for inventing a book so hideously bad that it is the exemplar of bad fiction.  It is the very ideal of illiterature, the "literature" of the illiterate, for the illiterate, the ideal Book of the Brain-Dead, for the brain-dead, the ideal lexicon of the hippopotomonstrosesquippedaliophobic, for the hippopotomonstrosesquippedaliophobic.Craig Clevenger would not have existed were it not for "Chuck" Palahniuk.  And "Chuck" Palahniuk would not have existed were it not for J.D. Salinger, who wrote the most toxic novel ever published.  The Catcher in the Rye has exerted a baleful influence on American literature that continues to this day.  Thanks to J.D. Salinger, now every dolt in America thinks that s/he can be an author.Dr. Joseph Suglia
4 this book definitely hooked me in right away.  one of those books you wish you could read straight through ignoring the rest of your life for awhile.  i found it very very well-written.  there were weaknesses: i agree with another reviewer that the love story part was a bit sappy as well as the crime-mob dialogue.  but i found the character himself really intriguing.  that line &quot;sometimes i can be so smart and sometimes i can be so stupid&quot; sums him up.  i really did feel like i was privy to the thoughts of this incredibly intelligent man who is missing some really really obvious stuff.  he's devised the most complicated solution possible to his problem but he WORKS that solution so well, is so focused on that solution that its never occurred to him to try a different angle.  and really his adopted solution makes perfect sense with respect to his background.  i was a bit disappointed that he actually did break out of his one-track view at the end.  i think it would have been a more interesting ending if he had stayed on his complex little hampster-wheel...anyway.. definitely a promising writer.  i'm looking forward to reading more of his work.
5 This book was on Chuck Palahniuk's recommendation list so i had to check it out. I recommend this novel - highly. It is a fast read and the story is so creative and interesting. Please buy this book.
5 Clevenger's "man of a thousand faces" is young, adaptable and a genius with spatial configurations. He is an artist, a forger of documents, with a degree of precision that guarantees success seldom achieved in a risky business. In a psychological minefield, this modern-day urban MASH is a stunning accomplishment.There is no truth in John Dolan Vincent's life, only change. Neither victim nor apologist, Vincent is an addict, a con and a forger. These days he is driven by the need to escape from one identity to another, pursued by the "system" and some thugs who dig his exceptional talent and want to keep him nearby. The periodic migraine is Vincent's true nemesis. Once the horrific pain hits, John plunges over the edge of common sense into blind panic, indiscriminately downing illegal painkillers and booze. Unfortunately, he usually loses track and overdoses, saved by the quick response of emergency services.Hence, the need for multiple identities. Once in the system, if listed as a patient previously flagged as a suicide risk, he would automatically be a candidate for mandatory 72-hour observation, or longer, and massive infusions of mind-numbing Thorazine. In this latest incarnation, Vincent is "Daniel Fletcher", running one step ahead of the other guy's synapses during the psychiatric evaluation/assessment. A self-admitted "contortionist", Vincent morphs identities the way a real contortionist changes shape.John's personal life is complicated as well. One of the most likeable characters in recent memory, John tells all, holds nothing back from the reader.  Women, sex and drugs blend together, depending on the amount of recreational drugs in his system at any given time, in one potent cocktail you just can't stop drinking, shooting out existential visuals of Heaven/Hell. In John's words, "...a thousand moments with Natalie blasted through my memory like a pillow torn open in a high wind."(Note: Don't judge a book by its cover. Some readers picked up this extraordinary novel because of the cover; I almost overlooked this gem because the cover led me to a different conclusion about the contents...no matter, by the end of the first page, I was hooked.)A few years ago, when the hip, irreverent Brett Easton Ellis hit the literary scene, the young author was an immediate star, a drug-speak party boy who was the darling of his niche in popular fiction, mixing with the denizens of the drug culture, cruising the spoiled-little-rich-kid LA party circuit. Less Than Zero offered a glimpse into that dangerous/seductive world of decadence, unspoiled by red lines of infected needle tracks or jonesing so bad, his couture slacks were urine-stained and stinking. Even the corpses looked good by the time they were transferred to film. But, like his tragic young junkies, victims of their own excess and too much money, Ellis' talent washed away as fast as cocaine stayed legal, eaten alive by his own PR machine. Worst of all, Ellis disrespected his audience, laughing all the way to the bank on the misogynistic profits of American Psycho.In contrast, Craig Clevenger is the real deal, a writer's writer, who buys his experience the hard way and high-fiving the street folks who live down and dirty, gliding along one notch below visibility. A true "contortionist", Clevenger has shelf life. Luan Gaines/2003.
5 I had wanted to read this book for some time and so finally bought it and settled in.  As with any book that is not completely clear about what exactly is going on, it is important to not set this one down for too long as to keep your own memory of the characters and events from becoming jumbled.  As you do this, you realize that you are doing precisely what the main character in the novel is and it puts a closeness between the two of you.  Clevenger's writing style is concise and descriptive, often giving up a sentence that surprises with its beauty and/or perfect imagery.  I would like to have heard more about Keara/Molly's story, but in the end, it isn't important to the overall impression that you are left with.  In fact, her story (or lack thereof) only adds to the main character's.  I very much enjoyed this book and now look forward to reading Clevenger's second novel!
1 Everything about this book is weak from the characters to the story. His style is similar to Palaniuk's, and if there is one bright spot about the book it could be that, but what I want most of all is a good read, and you dont get that from this story. It goes nowhere and you couldnt care less.I hated the main character and really didnt care about his life in the least, a stupid, young, whining drug-addict. I typically dont care to read the author's descriptions about the effects of snorting cocaine. I was really dissapointed.
5 This was a pretty quick read for me.  It keeps you interested by seeing how the main character keeps changing his identity and evading capture.  It also makes you wonder if something like this could happen in real life.
5 This book started so strong for me, that by the end of chapter two I was on Amazon looking for used copies to send to everybody I know.  It's probably best that there weren't any really inexpensive ones, because as I kept listening I realized why I loved it so much.  It has a very strong Palahniuk/Easton Ellis vibe.  I went on loving it, and then it dipped and I thought "oh, no ... Please don't fail to live up to your potential."Ultimately, it did live up to its potential, but it's certainly not for everyone.It had that sharp commentary I love so much, and in this case, that commentary was about the mental health industry.  That might be too broad a statement, but in general that's what it was about.  Some of the writing was brilliant.  Unfortunately, I listened on audio so I wasn't able to mark out passages.  This was a popular Kindle highlight, and it kind of gives you a feel for the book:"If an Evaluator sees creativity accompanying depression, anger or any sign of self-destruction, then that creativity is going to be relegated to finger painting and puzzles with grown men and women wearing cotton gowns, diapers and head injury scars."The narrator was exceptional!  I can't even read that sentence without hearing his intonation, and I have a feeling he really enhanced my experience of the book.  (His name is Ray Porter, by the way, and he's got a load of recordings on Blackstone audio.  I will look for more by him.  He's done Matheson'sHell House, which I've read, but may listen to just for the experience.)If you like the aforementioned authors, I don't think you'll be disappointed.  It will probably make my favorites list this year.
5 I bought T.C.H. along with four or five other novels and made the mistake of reading this one first. The rest didn't even come close - a new benchmark for writing. Clevenger hit it out of the park with his first novel. I immediately ordered his second book - Demaphoria - even though it doesn't have as good as reviews.I seldom write reviews but felt I owed the author at least that much. Beautifully written. I could actually feel for the character. Another review stated it was similiar to the Usual Suspects and Memento. I would agree.
5 I read this based on a thumbs up on Chuck Palhnuik's site, and I see why. Similar writing style to Chuck. The reader isn't completely sure what's going on until the end, but that makes it more enjoyable.
4 The Contortionist's Handbook is a number of things. First, it's the life story of John Dolan Vincent, a man who has spent his life constantly shifting his identity. It's also an intricate character study of John Dolan that gets into his head and let's the reader get to know the character intimately. Finally, it's a very touching love story that's so much more sweet than your typical Hollywood fare.I really can't say enough good things about this book. The writing is clean and enjoyable. It was definitely a book that I couldn't wait to find out what was going to happen next. I also thought that the way Clevenger weaved the present day of the story in with recollection's of the protagonist's past was masterful.And finally, the ending - the ending is beautiful. To me, it's the highlight of the whole book. The final page just underlines that this book is first and foremost (and obviously this is just my opinion and is how I read the story) a love story. Great ending to a fantastic read.sincerely,R.C.
5 By the bottom of page five, I was absolutely hooked.  Clevenger has a knack for giving you just the right details for you to come to the wrong conclusions, then setting you straight in a startling way.  Instead of one 'aha!' moment, there are dozens, places where you realize that you've been thinking ahead on false assumptions.  Sometimes these moments are funny, sometimes heartbreaking, but they're layered through the book.'Contortionist's Handbook' is an apt title, as John Dolan Vincent folds himself into an impossible position and then finds the one, altogether counterintuitive way out.On a separate note, something I found very satisfying about this book is Clevenger obviously did serious research into autistic spectrum disorders to give a believable first person idiot-savant.  Far from being a 'Rainman' stereotype, he has personality traits and perceptions that very much fit into the spectrum.  And his eerie talent is both his strength and his weakness, in the classic sense of a Greek tragic hero.He also captures the pre-IDEA special-ed environment in damning detail, and the reality of children who not only lack bourgeois advantages but even decent parents and housing, without being maudlin.The result is a book that bears repeated readings, probably the strongest debut novel published in five or more years.  I believe if it had been published by a higher profile publishing house, it might have stood a legit shot at the National Book Award or Pulitzer.
5 Fans of Chuck Palahniuk's early work take note of this book, because even the master loved it. This dark, demented tale of a troubled, talented forger gone underground provides just the kind of wild-yet-bent romp through the gutter that is what makes the genre so entertaining.
5 This is one of my all-time favorite books.  Found CC via Palahniuk.  He is a very unique voice, and I hope we'll see many more books from him.  Stick with it Craig, you are a brilliant man, and an extremely talented writer.  You've inspired me, and touched me with your writing.  Kudos, bro.
1 I was fooled by all those great reviews into buying this piece of tripe. What a waste of money. Reads like an MFA book-the author overly impressed with his style and too busy being cool to give the reader a real story. I have never written a negative review before, but felt compelled to warn others to ignore the laudatory reviews.
4 Craig Clevenger, The Contortionist's Handbook (MacAdam/Cage, 2002)I tend to shy away from MacAdam and Cage these days, since my last few tangles with them have been less than pleasant. With all the good things I'd been hearing about The Contortionist's Handbook, though, I figured I'd give them one more shot. I'm very glad I did.The Contortionist's Handbook is the story of David Fletcher. Except he's not David Fletcher, we soon learn; he's John Vincent, a counterfeiter who doesn't want to be known as a counterfeiter. (Most, one would assume, don't.) The book is, for the most part, the story of how John Vincent became David Fletcher, with a number of identities in the middle. The whole thing is framed by Vincent's verbal sparring with a psychiatric evaluator after going to the hospital, having overdosed in order to try and stop a headache.Given that most of the book is character study, don't expect too much of a plot; the frame story is a rather thin one. The meat of the book is the story of John Vincent, and that's where Clevenger concentrates. (As a side note, I didn't realize, until reading a review of the book that explicitly points it out, that John Vincent is supposed to be autistic.) Once the frame is set up in the first couple of chapters and we get into the real thing, this one is as gripping as anything I've read this year. Well worth your time. ****
5 This is an amazing debut novel. Craig Clevenger has written a book that appeals to the buried desire within us all to live life as someone who is not you. And he has done it with some of the most meticulous prose to appear in modern fiction in a long time. A master with detail, Clevenger also keeps the reader guessing as to how the protagonist will outwit the experts through superb "mind games" masked as physician-patient conversations. No matter how erudite the doctor, John Dolan Vincent has the upper hand -- he knows his stuff because he HAS to know it. If he fails to convince the medical staff that he is not insane or suicidal, he will be locked up in the Earthbound equivalent of hell, the Mental Institution.Clevenger is part of a new wave of modern noir, or blank fiction, or perhaps there is no term that captures this emerging literary movement. Along with Will Christopher Baer, Stephen Graham Jones, Chuck Palahniuk, Joey Goebel and others, Craig makes NOW a great time for lovers of fiction of a different flavor. Jump in early, there's a lot more coming from this talented author.
5 Finished reading John Dies at the End and This Book is Full of Spiders by David Wong and was looking for something in a similar vein. Nailed it! Less focus on humor and more on realism than those books, which is what I wanted. Dark and compelling. Highly recommended to fans of Palahniuk and his ilk.
5 Poignant, engaging - you won't want to put it down, and one of the most well written books I have come across in a long time.
5 Love the wall planner included with the book and the fabulous recipes. Yummy!  These recipes are really surprisingly filling. Honest!
4 Great book for ideas for juicing. I have been juicing for a long time and I just bought another juicer to use in NY apartment. Bought this book for ideas.Love it!
4 lots of good advice but it is too wordy. Most of the stuff he talked about can be found in most books. I was looking for something unique and when it comes to health, sometimes less is more. I believe he had too many examples and littles sayings to suit me and the cursing was a turn off.
3 It's was  OK but average book on Juicing.  It is more for the hard core juicer.  I bought the book because I had seen the infomercials on TV and wanted to see how juicing worked.  It's a lot of information and I hope I can get around to understanding it all.
5 I got the kindle version to follow up 7lbs in 7 days and it is really good. Great meal plans, well organized and easy to execute. I would say a must buy if you do 7lbs in 7 days program of Jason Vale it will enable you to keep the weight off for good and educate you on real health. A very basic and real approach to weight loss and health. Even though this book was written before 7lbs in 7 days you can see how Jason used it to fine tune and improve 7lbs in 7 days.
5 Very pleased with this....have started the turbo charge my life programme...thank you - far cheaper than buying locally!
4 this is for tolkien fans only. This is fun but no swords neither orcs.  Is about santa claus and a bear.
5 I completely and totally enjoyed reading this collection of letters from Father Christmas to Tolkien' s children. The pictures are delightful and the stories wonderful. I was actually sad when it was over.
5 We bought the edition for our son (now in college) that has the hand-written facsimile leters, each in its own envelope, which is itself a facsimile, complete with Tolkien's hand-drawn illustrations and fake postage.  For several years, we would read one of the letters each night before bed for the last few weeks before Christmas.  While this edition is missing several of the letters that later editions include, we loved being able to pull the facsimiles out of their envelopes and read them as if they really were letters from Father Christmas.  I don't think the other editions include the envelopes and letters.  You don't need me to tell you what a great storyteller Tolkien was, but the stunning beauty of the physical book is what stands out for me.  I can't wait to have grandchildren I can share it with!  As for my son, it opened the door to Tolkien for him.
5 Most children write letters TO Santa; few get letters FROM Santa (or Father Christmas, as British children call him.) The Tolkein children were lucky; their father was one of the top writers of the 20th C. and a fine--if totally untrained--artist.These letters are little gems.  As the years go on and the Tolkein children got older and more able to follow a complicated story, the letters get more 'literary.'  Also, if you will look at the dates, as the situation in Europe heated up, so did Father Christmas' troubles with the Goblins.  Children listen to the radio, too, and none of the Tolkein children could have been accused of stupidity; they knew, at some level, that something Very Bad was brewing, and I am sure that seeing that Father Christmas could deal with almost any crisis was comforting to them.As for the illustrations, JRRT had a wonderful sense of color and line.  He was very good at drawing stylized landscapes and interiors.  Who wouldn't want someplace like Cliff House?  He was less successful at drawing people and animals, probably because he knew very little about anatomy.  Still, the portrait of Father Christmas wrapping a package is very fine; his features look somewhat Asiatic.  I don't know if it is because JRRT had trouble drawing European round eyes, or if the Tolkein children were old enough to have seen pictures of Lapps and Eskimos and would have felt that such features would be appropriate to a man who lived at the North Pole.  Also, the picture of the Polar Bear battling the Goblins to save the Good Children's presents was full of movement and spirit enough that one didn't mind the questionable anatomy; the same could be said of the illustration of the accidental flooding of the English Deliveries room.If you have children in your life, get a copy.  Younger children will love to have these read to them, while older ones will love reading them themselves.
5 When I first saw this book shortly after the Lord of the Rings movies were released in 2000, I really could not believe the artistic talent of Tolkien, and how well Peter Jackson and Weta Workshops had incorporated the Art Noveau/Craftsman ideas into the movies (especially in Rivendell and Bag End) or the Old Norse and Viking aspects of the Rohirrim world. Seeing Tolkien's beautiful drawings, calligraphy, paintings and ink work, and his imagination of a world most of us only wish existed, is a journey into wonder and mystery and beauty.For those who want more, please read S.M. Stirling's &#34;Change&#34; novels, and pay close attention to the Ranger characters!
4 A sweet, very clever idea that the John Ronald Reuel Tolkien fellowcame up with to amuse his daughter. Definitely an interesting book forlittle kids, old funny looking spidery handwriting, and all. I supposethey probably rerelease this every year, with how popular he becamerecently.
5 J.R.R. Tolkien is revered in both the Christian and fantasy fields for his well-written stories and deservedly so. It came as no surprise to me that he would write letters to his children as Father Christmas. These were written and illustrated between 1920 and 1942.Usually, I would read a book and then review it. However, a book as unique as this required something else. As I had purchased the book during the holiday season, I took the unusual step of reading it to my sons, aged 11 and 12. They were skeptical (at least initially because Dad was doing the nightly reading), but were unsure since they knew these would be letters. However, those fears were soon put to rest.The characters Tolkien creates in his Father Christmas letters - not surprisingly - are drawn from his fertile imagination. My sons and I found the North Polar Bear and his cheeky demeanor to be the most amusing and colorful character. His misadventures around the Santa's workshop had my sons talking and enjoying the letters. The fact that North Polar Bear also injects his commentary into the letters makes them even more humorous.Even in his letters, Tolkien manages to inject realism into his fanciful letters. Many of the letters detail the suffering of Europe's children during the early and mid-1930s, while his 1939 letter references the Second World War. However, the realism described does not diminish but rather adds to the message of eternal hope found in the Christmas season.BOTTOM LINE: This is a book for all kids...from ages 1 to 92. ;-)
5 Tolkien was a super genius. Not only did he write the Lord of the Rings trilogy, but other more playful works such as this collection of letters his children received from Father Christmas. They are fun and imaginative with beautifully &#34;real&#34; drawings by Tolkien himself. Not only is this a glimpse into his personal life, but a commentary on world events (such as WWI) and England's economic issues of the time. These are written as reasons the children might not have gotten all that they asked for.North Polar Bear and his nephews are completely lovable as they mess up things while trying to help Father Christmas get ready for package delivery. This is a set of letters to read as an adult as well as to your children. The children will enjoy tales of messed up packages, the breaking of the North Pole, goblins, cave bears, and and elf who constantly rolls his eyes at NPB. Adults will enjoy all that, plus the hints at the war and economic struggles affecting England at the time of the letters.
3 It is not surprising the creator of Middle Earth, and the father of the fantasy genre, would create such an elaborate, creative collection of Christmas stories for his children.  This book is a nice addition to my library, as it contains the text of the letters, as well as Tolkien's hand-drawn illustrations and North Pole post markings.While this book does not relate to his Middle Earth universe, it is easy to recognize the origin of some of its characters.  The goblin attack on Santa's cellar presages the Goblin-Elf wars in Lord of the Rings.  Santa's elf-secretary Ilbereth is the obvious progenitor of the ancient elf-queen Elbereth.  We even get a glimpse of elvish writing and the goblin alphabet!If you have the chance, buy the new revised version of this book.  I have the 1991 reissue edition.  It is only 48 pages long, and omits the letters from 1920 - 1924 and from 1939-1942 .  The new edition is one hundred pages longer and contains previously unpublished material.
5 Book ReviewI found &#8216;Letters from Father Christmas&#8217; by J.R.R. Tolkien, a delightful read and the pictures of the letters themselves, and other drawings, added an interesting aspect to the book. This book is a great addition to your library, and a must-have coffee table read in the weeks before Christmas.&#8216;Letters From Father Christmas&#8217; is a collection of the Letters that J.R.R. Tolkien&#8217;s children received from Father Christmas for over twenty years; between 1920 and 1943. Each letter is reprinted along with their accompanying hand-drawn illustrations and North Pole post markings.J.R.R. Tolkien, best known for his epic fantasy &#8216;Lord of the Rings&#8217; and &#8216;Hobbit&#8221; was also the proud dad of four children. Over the course of many years, he wrote and illustrated detailed, whimsical letters from Father Christmas, populated with a clumsy polar bear, elves and goblins.As his children grew older, Tolkien explained to them, as best he could, about poverty and being hungry with no food in sight. Later on, he, as Father Christmas wrote to them about war and the hard times it brought to many families.In &#8216;Letters from Father Christmas&#8217;, J.R.R. Tolkien brought love to his children, but also the innocence and sweetness that comes with the Christmas Season to all.[...]
4 JRR Tolkien Letters From Father Christmas - This was a fun read and the illustrations are wonderful.  It must have been fun to get these letters each year.
5 J.R.R. Tolkien was best known for his epic fantasy "Lord of the Rings" and his studies in myth and language. But Tolkien was also the proud dad of four kids -- and he didn't just read "Hobbit" to them at bedtime. Over the course of many years, he wrote and illustrated detailed, whimsical letters from Father Christmas, populated with a clumsy polar bear, elves and goblins.In these letters, Father Christmas kept the Tolkien children updated with stories about the hijinks at the North Pole -- the slapsticky North Polar Bear and all the things he broke, firework explosions, the discovery of ancient caves full of old cave drawings, and battles with the goblins. (When Father Christmas couldn't write, his Elvish secretary filled in)When reading these letters, it's hard to imagine any luckier kids in the Christmases of the '20s and '30s. After all, how many children gets detailed letters and pictures from Father Christmas -- complete with special stamps? Tolkien's love for his kids is evident in the care he took to create these letters, and the affection that comes from "Father Christmas" that is written in.Tolkien's old-school style of writing is a bit formal and very correct, but he tosses in comments of exasperation, amusement, and in the last letter, a sort of sad resignation that children will grow up. Maybe it is because they were given to real children, not intended for publication, that the letters are only a little cutesy, and never cloying.And of course, Tolkien's detailed, colorful, fantastical, intricate pictures are what make the letters come alive; you can imagine the Tolkien kids eagerly examining the pictures as well as the written words. They aren't terribly realistic -- Father Christmas never looks quite real -- but their detailed fantastical charm makes up for it, such as the murals on Father Christmas's walls, with suns, moons, stars and trees.Tolkien also sprinkles the stories with things that his kids were probably intrigued by, like prehistoric cave paintings, fireworks, and a comic bear who causes all kinds of mayhem. And fans of Tolkien's fantasy works will probably enjoy checking out things like the invented Elf language (as written by the secretary Ilbereth) and goblin language. Tolkien includes a letter from the North Polar Bear in the latter language."Letters From Father Christmas" won't exactly make you believe in Santa Claus again, but it is one of the prettiest and most charming Christmas picture books out there. Definitely recommended -- and not just for Tolkien fans too.
4 Fantasy, yes, and charming.  Every year Tolkien would write and often draw as well a letter to his kids from 'Father Christmas'.  It's personal, of course, I doubt he ever planned on them being published, but there is a wonderful charm to them.
5 This is a rare glimpse into the private life of our Tolkien.  We find him to be ever magical in the writings and drawings created for his children.
5 I wish I had seen this book earlier when my children still believed. I would have loved to do the same and send Christmas notes back to them! These notes however are incredibly creative and I would have had a hard time living up to the quality of Tolkien's writing.This book is a top Christmas book in my household. It and &quot;Polar Express&quot; are a favorite read after we open up the x-mas box and put up the tree.
2 My father's copy remains one of my favorite Christmas books, but when I bought this planning on reading it to my children, I hadn't noticed that many of the letters were cut short without any warning or explaination.If you plan on buying this FANTASTIC book, avoid the version with fold out letters enclosed within. All the letters are cut down to one page, regardless of their original length.
4 In 1920, when J.R.R. Tolkien's eldest son was only three years old, his children began to receive a series of letters from the North Pole. Each year they would arrive with special postage stamps and drawings, bearing the shaky handwriting and stories of Father Christmas. For the next 22 years, the Tolkien children would correspond with Father Christmas, sending their wish lists and best wishes and receiving in return love and stories like no others.Letters from Father Christmas is a very short and quick read comprised of photographs of the envelopes, stamps, letters, and drawings that J.R.R. Tolkien created in the name of Father Christmas for his children. Published posthumously, the collection was edited by Baillie Tolkien, his daughter-in-law.If you are looking for unexpected charm, warmth, and unabashed fun this holiday season, Tolkien's Letters from Father Christmas provides just that. There is at least one letter for each year, some short, some long, and some years brought several letters from October or November through the season. The letters portray the adventures of Father Christmas along with his bumbling companion, the North Polar Bear. Our dear friend Polar Bear is constantly involved in all sorts of shenanigans ranging from setting off two years works of fire works in one go so that there will be no northern lights for two years, to falling asleep in the tub with the tap running so that all of that year's presents get flooded. As time marches forward, the North Pole becomes increasingly habitated by Snowbabies, Bear Cubs, Elves, Gnomes, and insidious Goblins. There are epic battles, parties, and no small account of jovial scenes that will charm adults and children alike (in fact, I would suggest reading this one as a family).As an adult fan of Tolkien's work, Letters from Father Christmas gives one some very interesting insight into the writer's home life. Clearly he was a man who loved his children very much. Many years the mishaps at the North Pole are used to help explain away the reality that the children do not receive everything they have asked for. One particular year, Father Christmas mentions not having as much room in his sleigh for presents because he is carrying food and blankets for those many children who are hungry and cold on Christmas Eve; a very subtle but powerful reminder to his children that they are rich in home and family regardless of how much they receive Father Christmas even mentions one year that he was going to bring them "Hobbits" since he was bringing it to many children, but figured that they would have lots already. The latest letters take place during WWII, which Father Christmas speaks of with great distaste and blames for his dwindling stores.While I honestly cannot recommend the Kindle edition of Letters from Father Christmas as you lose too much of the charm and beauty of the colorful artwork, I do recommend picking up a more recent publication as earlier editions omitted some of the letters and drawings that have been included in more recent editions.
5 Life in the Tolkien family in the 1920s and 1930s had its ups and downs just like any family, but the Tolkien children had one major benefit at least, a father who could tell the most thrilling tales imaginable.  At Christmas the pleasure increased one hundred fold, for the Tolkiens were the only family around who actually received real letters from Father Christmas!  Waiting on the mantelpiece, or handed in by the postman with a special North Pole stamp, or arriving in any number of other delightful ways, each Christmas news from the North Pole arrived and was read aloud by the children's father, J.R.R. Tolkien himself.  Even better, the letters were always profusely illustrated by Father Christmas himself.The stories told in these letters are always exciting.  Father Christmas and his friend the Polar Bear had to deal with all sorts of exigencies like goblin invasions each year as they worked to get ready for their annual Christmas journey.  Each letter was handwritten in a suitably shaky script by Father Christmas, and each letter included delightful color drawings illustrating the adventures it contained.Children will love these letters because the fantasy, like everything Tolkien created, is real and engrossing.  Adults will love the letters too, both for the memories of their own youthful Christmases, but also for the glimpses of Tolkien's "other" fantasies about Middle earth that may be spotted here and there in the letters.
5 This must be one of the most joyful experiences I've had reading a book. The man's love for his children really shines through these charming letters. I had no idea how talented Tolkien was as an artist until seeing the little works that accompanied these letters. The stories are very creative and I found myself laughing as a read several of them. Do yourself a favor and read this (probably best done at Christmas time but anytime will do).
5 No need to have read THE LORD OF THE RINGS to appreciate the amazing writing and out-of-this-world drawings by Tolkien in this mystical, loving book that he wrote to his children.  Every household should have one of these...GREAT STOCKING STUFFER!
5 With illustrations and wonderful letters sent from Father Christmas to the Tolkein children, this book will amaze and delight your family.  It is excellent fun.  Meet the North Polar Bear who is always in trouble, Ilbereth the Elf, goblins, the man in the moon, and Father Christmas himself.  You'll laugh together -- it's magical.
5 New editions of J.R.R. Tolkien classics return these fine presentations to new generations of readers. Tolkien's  Letters From Father Christmas arrived too late for holiday recommendation but this deserves a place on  bookshelves as a fine set of letters from 'Father Christmas' telling of  life at the North Pole. This revised edition provides new material,  including letters and pictures not seen in previous editions. Beautifully  done.
4 Entertaining letters written by Tolkien for his children.  Out of these type of activities grew his masterpiece - THE LORD OF THE RINGS.  He wrote these stories for his children, whilst involved with the more serious work  of his mythology.  But the culmination of his children's fiction - THE  HOBBIT, was so successful that it was published and Unwin wanted a  sequel.That said, these letters are good, and on the same quality as  ROVERANDOM and FARMER GILES.  Both of those are abundant in word play.  These are fascinating, and good holiday stories.  The chief complaint I  have with these are they were not all published.  As I understand it, some  of the letters that are published are lacking the entire letter.  However,  the selection of 1925 to 1939, although for some reason it seems I read it  continued on to 1945.  That might be in error.  The letter in 1920, only a  note, is included in facsimile, but for some reason the letters of 1921 to  1924 are missing.  A severe misfortune.  However, if you are looking for  light holiday fare (all of his children's fiction is light fare, with the  possible exception of THE HOBBIT), this is the place for it.  Afterward,  read ROVERANDOM and FARMER GILES OF HAM.  Narnia is better than both, of  course.
5 &quot;Letters From Father Christmas&quot; is stunningly beautiful. I have no words to describe how wonderful this book is. It is a great book for the Christmas season.&quot;Letters From Father Christmas&quot; is a collection of the Letters that J.R.R. Tolkien's children received from Father Christmas (what they call Santa in England) during the over twenty years between 1920 and 1943.Each letter is reprinted along with their accompanying illustrations. Father Christmas' letters are beautiful in their own right, but I am blown away by his illustrations. Some of this art deserves to be in a museum.The letters each tell a story. The North Polar Bear (Santa's friend and assistant) figures prominently in these tales. Other characters (elves, goblins, the snow man--who is Father Christmas's gardener, and the man in the moon) add depth and humor to these tales from the North.Some of these letters had my daughter rolling with laughter as we read them together. They are quite funny no matter what age you happen to be (the Polar Bear's commentaries had me laughing).This is a great book. Readers cannot fail to be moved by these letters and stories. I give &quot;Letters From Father Christmas&quot; my highest recommendation.
5 I gave this as a gift to my son and his wife of 2 1/2 years...my thoughts were to encourage traditions at Christmastime, I love the tradition that Tolkien created with his children and watching them grow as the years went by. A lovely, intimate portrait of family.
4 This a fun little read.  It is wonderful that we have been given a glimpse of what Tolkien 's children would have looked forward to at Christmas time. I enjoyed the humour and the wonderful illustrations.
3 I read this with my son and we enjoyed the fun and silly things that happened at the North Pole.
5 For 20 years, Tolkien wrote letters describing the adventures of Father Christmas to his children. The letters are beautifully written, descriptive, filled with humor, and are sure to bring a smile to the faces of children and adults. I love how Tolkien creates a life for Father Christmas (Santa) that goes way beyond the typical toy-making, elves, and reindeer.The books shows Tolkien's handwritten letters, as well as his illustrations.
4 This book is a collection of letters Tolkien wrote for his son at Christmas, pretending to be Father Christmas.  It is short and touching.  I enjoyed sharing it with my youngest.  It was also nice to get a glimpse of the real person behind that amazing imagination.
5 This is a charming book, full of wonderful illustrations drawn by Tolkien himself. The cast of characters is wonderfully amusing, especially North Polar Bear, who gets into all sorts of mischief every year. There are even descriptions of wars between Father Christmas and the neighboring Goblins, reminiscent of the Goblin wars depicted in The Hobbit and The Silmarillion.The book is also bittersweet, as it spans almost 20 years, and Tolkien begins to address his letters to fewer and fewer children, until only his youngest, his daughter Priscilla, still awaits her letter from Father Christmas. It shows how his children have grown, and Father Christmas himself seems sad as his children stop believing in Christmas magic. The last letter is especially poignant, as Father Christmas says goodbye to the children.This is a great book to read during the holiday season, but it can really be enjoyed any time of year. It's funny, magical, and made me feel like a child again. I recommend this book not only to fans of Tolkien, but to anyone who wants to get into the Christmas spirit.
5 I love this book, both light hearted humor of the stories in this book as well as the strong sense of a father who loves his children.  This book was the product of his love for his children, a love expressed by the gift of both his story telling and the pictures he drew.
1 I had hopes of interesting, humorous, and perhaps inspiring Christmas letters because of the famous name author here. Unfortunately, I found most of the letters to be as anyone might make up for their child's Christmas. We're this not a famous author, I don't think these letters would have made it further than a family album keepsake, for sentimental reasons only!! Disappointing at best!!
5 This is a really lovely little book with Professor Tolkien's characteristically magical water color and ink illustrations and his sweet-natured, witty commentaries about life at the North Pole.  Meet Father Christmas on his home turf and get to know his friend Great Polar Bear.  Through a series of letters that Father Christmas sent to the Tolkien children we are treated to an insider's look at all the magical preparations for Christmas as well as a glimpse of what life is like for Father Christmas during the rest of the year.  This book is a fun, hands on treat for the imagination with its realistic envelopes and letters that you can actually remove and read for yourself.  These enchanting letters were, of course, delivered by Elf Messenger and if you are lucky perhaps you will have a copy of this book delivered to you or someone you love.
5 My college library had a copy of this, the older printing, and I'd spent years regretting not having stolen it, even if it did have a "property of" stamp on every page. Looked for a copy for years, so glad it's finally being re-released.Essentially it's a reproduction of letters written by Tolkien to his children, in the voice of Father Christmas. The first few are extremely charming, while the later ones trail off.A good christmas present for a tolkienophile but perhaps not for most modern children; the later letters especially get rather long winded and erratic, if not simply hard to read.
5 Tolkein wrote these letters to his own children as if they were coming from Santa Claus at the North Pole.  They are sweet, funny, obviously done with great love.  There are sketches to illustrate.  I've had mine for many years and give them as Christmas presents often and continue to make rereading it a part of getting into the Christmas spirit.
5 How do you really give a review on something with such a hard subject matter to digest?  Well, in this case the author did a great job of letting the reader into such an awful portion of her life.  We get to "try" to understand what is was like to endure years of pain, both physical and mental.  We get to "try" and figure out how these awful things could have happened...and WHY it is so important to "get involved" as citizens.  Nobody wanted to take a stand for this little girl...nobody wanted to be brave...but she was.The author mentions a book I read years ago called "A Child Called It" by Dave Pelzer, and I'd agree...if you read it and found it engaging...you'll find this engaging as well.
3 "Jane's" story of 17 years of mental, physical, and sexual abuse from her young stepfather is a horrific story, but could have been told much more effectively through more skillful writing.The first three-fourths of the book felt mainly like a flat, aloof, oddly unemotional listing of one atrocity after the other..."he did this to me, he did this to mum, he would make me do this, he would then call me a ...."  The last third or fourth of the book seemed to combine events with her feelings and reactions to the events more;  I  was able to begin to sense that she was a real person and then I could begin to feel more touched by her experiences.I suppose Jane's nickname "Silly Git" for the stepfather was changed for this book like the other names, but it made me ill every time I read it: "Silly" seemed inappropriate..more an endearment and too "cutesy" for a man as evil as he.Hopefully this monster is never able to hurt another child or woman; and shame on that bunch that supported him.
3 I had to read this book for my child abuse and neglect class. I thought it was a very interesting to read and I'm glad I was forced to read it. I would recommend this book to anyone that has read a child called it.
5 This woman went thru  hell for 17 years and is now speaking out. Her story is incredible. Very detailed and chilling.
4 I thought this story of Jane was unbelivable!  How sad for a girl to go through the things she did--and her "mum" couldnt help her. Jane went through hell and back with the abuse from her stepfather Richard. She writes about terrible, terrible things that made me want to cry at times.  This story is a heartfelt one, and the proper punishement aventually comes .  I would love another book from Jane --on how her life is going and how she has been healing through writing this book etc.
4 This difficult subject of physical, sexual, & verbal abuse was well written in a tasteful manner.  As someone not exposed to this in my life, it helped me to understand how someone could continue to be subjected to this type of treatment and not speak up for themselves sooner. It became a life consuming fear for her to deal with not only her abuser but those that protected him as well. My heart goes out to her and am amazed by her strength and courage to finally speak up and carry on with her own life.
4 Again a shocking story of a child who endured a life of confusion and abuse by a monster who felt his actions were his god given right,
4 This novel was very powerful to read.  True story. What this young woman went through was incredible.  Her story was inspiring.
5 Wow! That's pretty much all I can say! What this child went through was horrendous but her story really tugged at my heart. She told it amazingly ~ suspense, excitement, disgust, happy ending. Very happy with the condition is was in when I received the order.
5 this book was so touching and so honest. I could not put the book down. this is a great book!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
5 I have read somme good books but this one had me hooked within the first few pages. What this poor girl went through is truly amazing!! A book that is an easy read and yet packs a punch I would recommend it to anyone who likes a happy ending.
3 I've not yet finished the book but the Silly Git thing is really getting on my nerves.  It's such a stupid, insipid name for anyone much less an evil douchebag that should have been called something like Satin or Psycho.  Truely, its ruining the book for me.  It just makes me cringe everytime it comes up.
5 Another sad tale of how we, as a society do not value our children or protect them from cruelty.Very informative.
5 Jane Elliot lived through a childhood that most never survive to tell the tale.The things this woman went through are unimaginable horrors. From being a sex, and domestic slave for 17 years to being beat down for speaking out against her abuser by her very own brothers.I'm angry that her mother was never charged with neglect. I know Jane wants to believe that her mom didn't know about the sexual abuse she endured but deep down I think she knows that really her mother could have cared less.This is a tale of survival. Once you open this book you will not want to set it down.
3 The story is harrowing and brutal.  By the time I got to chapter three, I afraid the entire book was just going to be a litany of atrocities.  I was looking for some insight, introspection, and triumph but the book ended abruptly and left me wondering if the participants in the author's last assault were prosecuted or simply got away with it, which is what the author seemed to imply.  This family is seemingly "untouchable" no matter how much harrassment they inflicted--and they seemed to be threatening dozens of different people on a regular basis.  Maybe I just don't understand how things criminal justice works in England.Technically, this book was not all that well written.  I was irritated at how many times the editor let the weak construction "There was" stand.  Seemingly every paragraph had one.  The professional co-writer on the project should have known better.  It gave the story the feel of a "just the facts" trial transcipt.Finally this book contains multiple graphic descriptions of horrific sexual abuse.  Children do not be reading it or reviewing it.
5 This whole subject is not for the "faint of heart".  It is horrific and beyond the understanding of those of us not touched by actual experience.  A blind eye has been turned on these poor children for long enough.  We must keep them safe and prosecute the perpetrators.
3 I dont think many of us know what this means and it was a difficult choice for me to choose to read these kind of books.  It is still a taboo subject; but I was glad I read it as it opened my eyes that it is quite difficult to detect abuse behind other disturbing factors like the physical violence and verbal abuse that this lady and her family went through with just one crazy person in the family.As I read the book and relating to all this kidnap stories of kid disappearing then discovered years later, that they had all the opportunities to tell on their abuser; but they dont.  The shear fear and the powerlessness must be so over powering, which the book does not get that across (which is why, for me, I am glad I did not have to experience it with the author).It is so true that behind close doors you do not know.  I am thankful for the author to recount so many painful experiences as I will now keep my eyes open for any tell tale signs and not be one of these people who look the other way.I recommend this book for someone who dont want all the gorey details, but enough to have one eyes opened to what abuse means.
5 Another good book up there with "A Child Called It". I just stumbled upon this book at the library and decided to give it a chance. Once I started reading it, I could hardly put the book down. I had to get to the end to see what happened to her abuser. I'm amazed by what other humans are made to suffer through, especially at the hands of their own family members. I give credit to the author for finally standing up for herself and making a case. She put herself and others at risk to do so. Very good read but some parts are a little tough to read through from the abuse standpoint.
5 A shocking account, honestly and graphically written.  Amazing that anyone could survive something like this.  Very helpful for anyone else who may have gone through this sort of thing.  Thankfully, I didn't, but there is far too much of this and it must be told.
5 As difficult as this is to read, I am happy that the author was able to face her demons and begin the life long healing process that she is facing. Unlike other books I have read about child abuse, she followed through and put the worthless piece of crap who tormented her behind bars. Her mother will forever have to live with the fact that she condoned and encouraged her daughter's abuse. Well done Jane!
5 What this poor girl did not go threw. This evil and cruel man that was suppose to be a person in the position of protection and mentoring ended up a demon that took advantage of this small child for most of her childhood and young adult life.There is not a moment of this story where you will not realize the pain and torment that will keep you wanting to read and hope that this story will have a wonderful ending.You will find yourself following this story with great eagerness to find that there was justice for this child/young woman.
3 I sometimes wonder why they write these books and just repeat the same stuff over and over.....I like getting to know what is in someones head..but when its chapter after chapter of the same thing...Could it not be said it happen over and over...and give more of the day to day..and let us into their lives more...I don't know the mother or stepfather...in any detail...or other kids..So it is about abuse but you never really know what is happening behind the scenes..and I am sure the abuse was all consuming.
5 I thought I had read all of the books, and with Amazon, I was able to find it, Equal to all the other books of Flashman, a true treat.
4 This twelfth installment of the hilarious Flashman papers is, alas, not one of the better ones. To be sure, it's a rollicking good time with all the elements one expects from the series (a bevy of dusky and lusty women, an exotic setting, a mad villain, and a reluctant Flashman), and yet it all seems a little hollow. The setting is Abyssinia (more or less present-day Ethiopia) circa 1868, where a local warlord by the name of Emperor Theodore has expressed his ire with the British Empire by taking European hostages. A relief force of some 10-15,000 troops is organized under the command of Sir Robert Napier, and they are sent across the harsh terrain to liberate the hostages and put the upstart Emperor in his place. But to do so, they must take silver with which to bribe other local warlords, which is where Flashman comes in.Flashman (at this point in his mid-40s) happens to arrive in Trieste after fleeing Mexico, and there encounters his old school acquaintance Speedicut, who enlists him as guardian of a ?500,000 war chest en route to Napier. Due to his usual unwise amorous peccadilloes, Flashman accepts the assignment and makes his way to catch up with the Napier's army. Unfortunately (but somewhat predictably), once he arrives, the brave Sir Harry is tapped by Napier for a semi-suicidal secret mission deep into enemy territory. As usual, he is forced to undertake the scheme, lest his true cowardice be revealed and so off he goes. Adventures ensure, with the requisite willing ladies, nasty foes, and a plot twist or two.However, unlike so many stories in the series, here Flashman is generally more of an unwilling spectator, and doesn't really influence the outcome of history. His main achievement is to ensure that an allied tribal group remains in a blocking position so the pesky Theodore has no line of retreat from Napier -- not exactly rip-roaring material. More so than many of the Flashman adventures, this one reads more like a straight historical novel about an interesting footnote of imperial history. There are plenty of colorful characters (notably the bipolar psychopath Emperor), but the climactic battle and denouement aren't nearly the gripping nail-biters one expects from the series. Perhaps best thought of as "minor" Flashman, although, of course, even minor Flashman is better than most fiction!
4 Sir Harry Flashman, that mid-19th century rapscallion, is at it again in FLASHMAN ON THE MARCH, a new adventure by George MacDonald Fraser. This time he's enmeshed in the Abyssinian Wars in 1868. He bluffs and bungles his way into a winning situation, but not without a boatload of near-tragedies.As has become the pattern in this series of novels (this is the twelfth release in the historical fiction franchise), Flashman falls into a situation in which his ill-gotten reputation as a soldier extraordinaire does him disservice. Thrust into a mission that would have him aid in the overthrow of King Theodore, a maniacal, blood-thirsty ruler, Flashman must find a way to accomplish the task while keeping his sorry hide intact. Along the way, he finds time to bed not one, but two, main female characters. In addition to his innate cowardice and self-centeredness, Flashman is a scandalous lothario, kissing and telling of his amorous exploits with the most unlikely, seemingly unattainable beauties. These affairs usually come back to haunt him in manners more or less threatening.After once again receiving undeserved credit for a serendipitous event, he muses, in a rare moment of introspection:"All my life, people have been taking me at face value, supposing that such a big, bluff daredevilish-looking fellow must be heroic, but here was a new and wondrous misconception. Just because I tickled his funny-bone years ago...I must therefore be 'good-hearted'...and even humane and chivalrous, God help us, the kind of decent Christian whose conscience would be wrung to ribbons because he'd felt obliged to do away with an inconvenient [enemy] for the sake of the side." (The original language is a tad saltier; Flashman is no poster-boy for political correctness, although this no doubt reflects the "sensibilities" of his times.)Fraser, who served in a Highland Regiment in Africa, India and the Middle East, is a stickler for detail, whether it's the presence of historical figures in the narrative --- such as King Theodore and Robert Cornelis Napier, who led the British forces during the Abyssinian campaign --- or using archaic language. Other prominent personages in the Flashman series (which began in 1969 with, appropriately enough, FLASHMAN) include Abraham Lincoln, John Brown, Otto von Bismarck, and Alfred Lord Tennyson. Fraser also includes footnotes describing some of the more arcane references. At times, however, such a device can cause the reader's eyes to glaze over; only a true student of the period would appreciate such a degree of minutia.Nevertheless, for a fictional character "born" more than 3An n0 years ago, Harry Flashman has aged very well.--- Reviewed by Ron Kaplan
5 This is an excellent addition to the Flashman series, hilariously funny (as usual) while at the same time highlighting an obscure historical event and bringing the characters and their various accomplishments to life.
5 Can Harry Flashman be getting a bit braver in his middle years? He claims not, yet he goes on a mission the younger Harry would never have agreed to no matter the cost to his personal reputation, but would instead have found himself in the situation by sheer bad luck, only to come out the other side with his reputation enhanced.Over the course of weeks he stays with the mission toward its accomplishment, never once sneaking away only to find himself in the company of a true hero who saved the day before fortunately expiring to leave Harry as the only man standing to take the credit.Not that I didn't enjoy the book immensely. I did. A less classically cowardly Harry still gets himself into hilarious situations only he can extricate himself from with a hero's badge. The little known historical drama was quite interesting not only for the true characters but for its outcome and its moral lesson.Through everything, and every book of this series, one gets a thorough understanding of the creation of the British Empire: superior generals, superior soldiering, incredible bravery, and a willingness to fight to the last Irishman.
5 The Flashman series is one of the unalloyed treasures of reading: hysterically funny, immensely informative, unfailingly entertaining, and even, at times, moving.  These adventures of the 19th Century's greatest poltroon never fail to amuse-- and I've read them all many times.  This new volume is a treat (though not in my top 6), and deserves your attention.THAT SAID: don't start here.  If you haven't read, at the very least, the first volume ("Flashman"), you'll be doing yourself a disservice.  These should be read, and savored, either chronologically (in terms of Flashy's life and crimes) or in order of publication, as you prefer.  Your appreciation of the character will be enriched by the proper introduction, and you'll get more out of this and all the others.  Enjoy!
2 This was a disappointing entry in this series, as most of the earlier books have been quite entertaining. The author seemed to be going through the motions of writing his style of book, but he was basically cutting and pasting a scene here and a scene there from previous novels. You had Flashy with the lovely but dangerous women; Flashy in mortal peril; fearful Flashy abandoning others to save himself; Flashy looking bluff and manly but inwardly quaking; and Flashy's presence at crucial events being misinterpreted to his favor. It was all very rote and leads you to believe that the author is getting tired of it all. The historical wrapping was different from the other books, of course, but it came across as generically Foreign and Exotic; it seemed as if the author had run out of interesting adventures to slot into Flashy's timeline and so chose this one as a second-best option.
5 Flashman is the Zelig of the 19th century, a fictional character inserted by his inventive creator into many and sundry historical events, introducing or reintroducing them to us in a far more entertaining fashion than the history books ever will.Fraser here puts Flashman in a fascinating but forgotten piece of 19th century history - the British expedition deep into what is now Ethiopia to rescue hostages held by the mad King Theodore.Led by General Robert Napier, the mission was a resounding success, against overwhelming odds of defeat. Naysayers (virtually everyone) predicted Napier and his troops couldn't make the trek, would run out of supplies or be cut off deep in the wild by fierce Abyssinian troops and would inevitably perish.Napier not only reached the mountain redoubt where the hostages were being kept but retrieved them with virtually no casualties, then retreated without further entangling the British or seeking to expand the already enormous empire.Theodore was a fascinating character - an admirer of Britain to the end. His pride, however, is offended when the Foreign Office fails to respond to a letter from him describing a favor he has done them.  His madness swings between moments of genial lucidity where he mulls sending his son to a British school, and ones of flaming madness where children might be thrown over cliffs.Flashman, in Trieste dodging authorities after dallying with a young Austrian girl on a voyage from Mexico, agrees to escort British cash to the Red Sea to bolster Napier's expedition. He thinks he'll be able to head home from there, but Napier - whose support Flashman needs to return to England - sends him on a risky mission: travelling deep inland to enlist the support of a rival queen against Theodore. Without it, Napier's military chances will be lessened considerably.Flashman's guide is the queen's half-sister Uliba, gorgeous and an intrepid warrior. (And, of course, a vixen. This is a Flashman novel.) She serves as his introduction into the exotic ways of the land, a largely Christian kingdom virtually unknown to Europeans.And it is she who shows him the savagery of King Theodore, who has not only tortured hostages but laid waste to large parts of his own country, killing thousands of his own subjects. It's a savage place to begin with; torture is common, enemies are dealt with in the most painful possible ways, and warriors often go into battle with the private parts of slain enemies dangling from their spears. Diners are often served raw meat cut from live animals on the spot.It has its merits, of course, in its legions of gorgeous women who tend to go around topless.Flashman finds his way into the court of Queen Masteeat and then, inevitably, into the company of King Theodore, whose madness he sees first-hand, and where he eventually witnesses a historic victory, but not before acquiring a respect for Abyssinian warriors.
4 What can I say except that Flashman delivers again. This story has all the characteristics which we have come to expect from the series - a distant and exotic locale, a mad emperor, Englishmen in distress and a gallant British army to the rescue and of course Flashman. A Flashman who has matured, who is wiser and more assured than his youthful self, but who at heart remains the same lecherous coward, bully and all round rogue.But what really make the Flashman series special is that the events described - the British Army's Expedition to Abyssinia to free a group of hostages from the clutches of the Mad Emperor Theodore -actually occurred and have been rigorously researched by the author. So read this tale and you will learn about a fascinating but largely forgotten event in Victorian history.
4 _Flashman on the March_ has the elements fans of George Macdonald Fraser expect: abundant, detailed historical endnotes, vivid descriptions of battles, exotic locations - but the 12th installment of the series just doesn't seem as "fun" as the earlier works.While Flashman once again is called upon to serve King and Country (which of course he does - reluctantly) this time in Abyssinia, the sense of misadventure, lechery, cowardace-turned-heroism and outright manipulation just wasn't there in the same frolicing, smug and self-promoting manner that I have come to love in the character of Harry Paget Flashman.  There is much to enjoy in _Flashman on the March_ to be sure, but  it isn't among the better stories in the series.
5 This is what I love best about Flashman. A detailed history that I knew nothing about before reading the first page, combined with great heaps of hilarity and action. God Bless Flashman (because no one else will).
5 I find it almost hard to believe that it's been 40 years since I read the first Flashman book! This series, now in its 12th incarnation, never appears to flag. Our intrepid hero (?) always seems to be at the center of some famous historic action, and somehow, despite being a self-proclamed coward, comes through with rave notices for bravery. This book, retelling the British invasion (?) of Abyssinia in 1868, shows Flashy at his best (?), trying diligently to stay out of harm's way, but somehow managing to get right into the middle of it. This book shows us a more introspective Flashman, ruminating about heroism and other important topics, and he even manages to do some brave deeds along the way. There are the usual females who fall for that old Flashman charm, and the author's portraits of the historical figures are obviously based on extensive research, for they appear quite true to their actual personas. I only hope that we get to read all of Harry Flashman's adventures in the coming years!
4 However George Macdonald Fraserdeserves it every time it is mentioned and that is the lord's truth.  Flashy is back in full form here he is brave, noble and has the ability for self sacrifice as long as he can turn a tidy profit and preserve his own skin.  The historical details that as always masterful ultimately irrelevant because Flashman is Flashman weather he is in The army of John Brown, in Russia, or impersonating royalty.The only problems that I have with this book aren't really problems at all #1 We never got our Civil War Flashman it would have been nice to see Flashy in action with Robert E. Lee.  #2 No where was this installment of the Flashman papers mentioned in the chronology this is odd because even in the first installment of the Flashman papers there were references to books that were still in the future.Overall-Fine book and I have to remember that Fraser would have probably written a Civil War Flashman if he had the time.  Death is unfortunately rather final.
3 The footnote links do not work. Very annoying. the links should have been tested thoroughly before this was released. One wonders what explains this?
3 ... legitimate heroes that is, is that they don't lend themselves to satire or drollery, and what's a Flashman book worth without supercilious humor? This is the least funny and the most formulaic of the Flashman novels. It doesn't justify an analysis of author George MacDonald Fraser's semiotics or politics; it offers nothing new. I wouldn't recommend it to anyone except a compulsive "completist" reader or else a daft admirer of forthright racism and smirky sexism.Robert Napier, the British engineer/general who managed the Abyssinian Campaign of 1868, was evidently an unassailable Hero in the eyes of GM Fraser, and is represented as such in these 'memoirs' of the most fraudulent hero in all of literature, Sir Harry Flashman. I confess that I knew almost nothing about the Abyssinian Campaign or about Emperor Tewodros II before reading "Flashman on the March". Thus the book has served a purpose, nudging me to 'read up' on an extraordinary historical event. You'll find both Napier and Tewodros well documented on wikipedia.The action of Fraser's novel is largely based on the accounts written soon after the Campaign by actual observers, but Fraser's depiction of Tewodros as a blood-lusting madman/genius is drawn more from sensational Victorian journalism than from more recent scholarship. Tewodros is a national hero in the worldview of our contemporary Ethiopians and Africans at large, and a substantial biography of him would probably be more interesting than Flashman's self-aggrandizing fibs. On the other hand, yet once again, Fraser was uncanny in his historical imagination; the bizarre evil and capricious cruelty of his fictional dictator became embodied in the reality of Idi Amin.
4 THESE ARE COMMENTS ON THE KINDLE EDITION.I love Flashman. When younger, I enjoyed Hornblower, but Flashman is more to my taste nowadays. Just the thing for an airplane trip or a summer at the beach.Now someone tell me why this edition does not have footnotes that work. Lots of other Kindle books handle footnotes. Click, select footnote, click, read footnote, click, return to text. Great. But couldn't the publisher get off his duff and do the job properly?Fraizer's footnotes about Flashy's historical setting are half the fun.
4 I have been relearning history through Sir Harry Flashman's eyes now for years. Mr. Fraser has always captivated me with the little descriptive touches he uses to "set" a period of history in a readers mind; everything from the music being played to the picadilos and foibles enacted by historical figures of the era. I agree with one of the previous reviewers that were I to begin with a "Flashman" book, I would not begin with this one. I would read one of his earlier novels( like "Flashman") and take the journey right on down the line. The is boozing, wenching, swashbuckling based fun for all adults!!!
3 The last of the series is, in my opinion, the least true to Flashman and to the author. While still exciting and equally outrageous, the Flash just doesn't seem to be his old self. If I'd have started with this book, I doubt that I'd read the others. Having started with&#34;Flashman&#34; and progressing through the series, I had to read the last. OK, but not great.
5 For those of us to whom his books brought such pleasure, "Flashman on the March" will always have an air of sadness about it, as it was the last Flashman book the late George MacDonald Fraser ever wrote. As with a prematurely deceased friend, we Flashman fans lament the adventures we'll never experience with our dear departed Flashman: the U.S. Civil War, the Mexican fiasco, Rorke's Drift, et al. However, we're thankful for what we were given, and this book is a worthy finale to the canon. The writing is as excellent as ever, the history as bizarre as it is true, and the story as vivid and enjoyable as any in the series. I appreciate the point of view of those who found this work a bit formulaic, i.e. the usual mix of exotic temptresses, unintended involvement in a horrific Victorian war, the disconnect between character and reputation, etc.  However, there's nothing wrong with using a formula that works, and the formula that MacDonald Fraser developed in the original "Flashman" is pure gold. What do the critics want? To read a book about Flashman vacationing in the Lake District? Writing letters to the editor about Irish Home Rule? This isn't the best of the series, but it doesn't disappoint. Thanks for the laughs, GMF.
5 If you have read even one of the Flashman Papers, this review very likely is irrelevant: You're already reading one of the previously published works recounting the adventures of Sir Harry.On top of that, what can you say about General Flashman that has not been said already, and by those better with the Queen's English than Your Humble Narrator?  Sufficient to say that "Flashman on the March" is a suitable continuation of The Saga of the Greatest Hero of the Victorian Age.As always, when finishing the latest installment of the Flashman Papers, one hungers for the next installment, while wondering what that will involve.  The rest of the story about Our Hero's involvment in the Civil War? The French intervention in Mexico?  Australia?But in the midst of such pleasant reveries, a very unpleasant thought creeps in:  George MacDonald Fraser, Sir Harrys' biographer, is getting along in years, and -- alas! -- is unlikely to live forever. Gad! The very thought sends a chill down the spine.NeilP.S.  If you have not read Fraser's WWII biography, "Quartered Safe Out Here" -- do so. Now.  Immediately.  You'll thank me.
4 I'm not supposed to like stuff like this. After all, I'm supposed to be a man of the cloth. I like it anyway. Like all of its predecessors, it is a guilty pleasure.Harry Flashman is the creation of George MacDonald Fraser. He is a Victorian hero who seems to have been present at every great event of his age. He is hailed as the hero of Jallalabad, the Indian Mutiny, the American Underground Railroad, the charge of the Light Brigade, the charge of the Heavy Brigade and the stand of the thin red line among other. He was commissioned by the Confederate Army and the Union Army. He also fought with the French Foreign Legion under the Emperor Maximillian. He was hailed as a hero by all. What only the readers of the Flashman papers know is that he is a coward and a cad. He just manipulates those around him in order to build his reputation and get laid. He does both superbly and just manages get out of every scrape he finds himself in.In this volume, Flashman takes part in the Abyssinian War. He doesn't do so willingly and gets from one bit of trouble to the next. He also gets from one bed to the next literally and metaphorically screwing everyone with whom he comes into contact and again comes out of it with an enhanced reputation.One of the interesting things about Flashman books is the copious addition of footnotes. The stories are presented as if they are autobiographical and written to cause trouble after Flashman's death. The footnotes at historical details that are worth reading in their own right.The war this volume covers is one of the strangest in British history. Most of the time when Britain goes to war it does so with great pomp and certainty of swift victory. After a few reverses, they ultimately win. This war was different. Everyone predicted disaster. Instead, the campaign was won without any loss of life to combat (by the British) and remarkably few casualties. They went in, did what they said they would and left.This is not the best of the Flashman Papers but all of them are good. This one is no exception.
4 _Flashman on the March_ is hugely entertaining, even though it's not really a Flashman book.I mean, what's not to like? It has battles! It has colorful foreign locations! It has fascinating historical tidbits! It has vivid, larger-than-life yet true-to-life characters! It has a fast-moving, engaging, lively story!In short, it has everything I look for in a Flashman novel ...... except Flashman.Oh, he's *there*, but he's more or less along for the ride. He doesn't really affect the plot at all. Instead, his narrative is a racy but more-or-less-straighforward piece of war reporting. The archetypical Flashy story has him repeatedly getting himself into trouble (via cowardice, sloth, opportunism, lying, lechery, etc.) and thence out of it (via cowardice, treachery, opportunism, lying, pandering, etc.). Here, Flashman utters a few token protests, then lets himself be swept along by events. Most uncharacteristic!In fact, the book is mostly a plain historical novel. (The underlying facts are largely findable in Alan Moorehead's classic _The Blue Nile_.)One more thing. In one or two places, Fraser departs from his "editor" role to offer his own personal opinions on political matters. As it happens, I largely agree with the points he's making; but they would have been better made if he had resisted the temptation to editorialize, and let the facts speak for themselves. As it is, his proselytizing weakens rather than strengthens his arguments. Fortunately, there's not much of it.What else is there to say? The book is still great fun. If you like Flashman, you'll probably like _Flashman on the March_. If you're a novice reader (are there any?), though, don't start here.
4 I get a personal kick out of Flashman's ability to rationalize every situation and come out smelling like a rose.  Wish I could do that.
5 Flashman On The March is by no means the best book of the series, but Fraser is in his 80s, doesn't need the money, and we must be grateful for any new Flashman material at all.  It is better than his previous, Flashman & The Tiger, a collection of three shorter stories, was.In this case, Flashman finds himself once again in trouble over a woman, and consequently exposed to what appear to be convenient plans to get him out of town when offered by his friend Speedicut; and of course thus unwittingly puts his head into yet another noose, this time finding himself on the expedition to Magdala in what became the Abyssinian War.Fraser's absolutely meticulous research, as usual, brings what is to us a very remote and little known campaign to technicolor life.  Fraser's notes and commentary refer to all the primary sources then extant, newspapers and magazines of the time, official publications, memoirs, and the like, transforming his work from standard historical fiction into something a good deal better, more reliable, and instructive.  Combine this with Fraser's excellent characterizations, his pitch-perfect dialogue, his ironic, sarcastic, and often bawdy humor, and you have what is simply the best such series in print.  Every novel has been an absolute joy to read and reread over the years.The story and the events make for great reading and do not need to be reviewed here; every Flashman reader knows what he will get, and that he will love it.  (In that sense, Fraser is every bit as dependable as Ian Fleming was; give the public what it wants.)  More interesting to me is Fraser's long-standing political incorrectness, and I am not talking about his use of 'the n-word' (which can be rationalized on grounds of historical accuracy in speech) or the jumping of every woman in the book (which is fact is completely PC), which is what the NY Times seems to think makes this stuff racy, but rather of his observations of actual conditions and actual events around the world.  Fraser pulls no punches, and never has, in describing in cold hard brutal documented facts the almost unbelievable cruelty, the shocking crimes, and bestial behavior, of homicidal maniacs masquerading as kings, chieftains, advisors to the great, and so on, throughout the Victorian world, and while the British are far from faultless (see destruction of the Summer Palace after the Chinese expedition) there is a clear contrast between the civilized and the uncivilized, and both Flashman and Fraser (in his notes) leave us with no doubt as to which they prefer.  The concept of the 'noble savage' is one with which Fraser deals again and again - perhaps best at the beginning of Flashman & The Redskins, which finds Flashy dealing with Political Correctness of the time at a London Club, but throughout most of the other books as well - and which he demolishes simply through accumulation of documented evidence. In 2006, however, as it was in 1969 when Fraser first began this epic romp through history, this remains an uphill fight. Even the last page of this book, where Flashman, Napier and Speed discuss the benefits of leaving Abyssinia now that the mission is done, or staying and colonizing the place, makes clear the dilemma is a no-win situation: if they leave they will be characterized as irresponsible, and if they stay as imperialistic.  The New York Times won't touch that in their review; they seem to think the whole series is just about fornicating Flashy on a tour through the brothels of the world.  It is, in part - but if there weren't quite a bit more to it than that, Fraser would not still be providing his readers with the best and most enjoyable historical fiction in print.The brilliant covers by Arthur Barbosa are a thing of the past, and time moves on for Fraser as for the rest of us.  For my part, I selfishly hope Mr Fraser lives to be 150 year old and cranks out many, many more Flashman novels.
4 In this, the twelfth and final Flashman story, we find Sir Harry aboard the ship bringing the Emperor Maximilian's body back to Austria. But, having seduced an Austria Admiral's daughter, he finds the need to leave Trieste in a hurry. Accepting a mission to carry gold to the British military mission to Abyssinia, Flashman soon finds himself thrust into a dangerous mission, where he hobnobs with the elite of Abyssinian society and nearly gets killed for his troubles...repeatedly!This is another very good Flashman novel, and a fitting end to the series. It contains a lot of action and daring do, and that great tongue-in-cheek humor that make the Flashman books so much fun. I really enjoyed the time I spent with this book. Long live Sir Harry Flashman!
4 As an avid fan of the Flashman papers I obtained my copy of this book from Amazon's UK site.  Having read all of the books in the series, I'll use the basic elements of the Flashman papers to review this book.THE VILLAIN - Emperor Theodore of Abyssinia is one of the more disturbing bad guys in the series.  His split personality can change on a dime.  Sometimes he's a reasonable, responsible, and impressive figure.  But any slight can turn him into a brutal mass murderer.  He imprisons and tortures British diplomats because the foreign office didn't answer his mail.  He saves Flashman's life but later tries to kill him.  Think of Saddam Hussein with a pleasant streak.THE HISTORY - Abyssinia and its people are certainly interesting.  This part of the world is new territory for Flashman (and me).  But the military battles that normally highlight the Flashman books are anti-climatic.  Theodore retreats to his fortress in Magdala and releases the prisoners too late to stop General Napier's attack.  For the British the hard part of the march is the logistics involved in getting there.  Napier handles this very well (except for one near disastrous mistake his leadership is almost perfect).  Unfortunately logistics only makes exciting reading when they're done poorly.  The footnotes in the book come too frequently.  Some of them should have been combined.THE STORYTELLING - George MacDonald Fraser is still up to writing a good yarn.  The initial setup of the story is brilliant.  Flashman's intelligence mission to get allies for Napier has many exciting moments.  (Flashman doesn't spend much time on the march itself.)  Because the military campaign isn't suspenseful the final chapters don't have the excitement readers normally expect from the Flashman series.THE HUMOR - Like some of the recent books in the series, Flashman doesn't make many of the laugh out loud wisecracks present in the earlier books.  There are some funny situations.THE MAIN CHARACTER --  Flashman commits one of his most dastardly acts.  Otherwise he's responsible, except for the adultery.THE "ROMANCE" - Naturally it's his womanizing that gets Flashman into trouble.  As a group the ladies aren't as attractive as those in most of the other books. Flashman acknowledges that he's not discriminating when it comes to women.  Given the number he's been involved with, that shouldn't be surprising.OVERALL - This book keeps up the high quality of the Flashman papers.  It's one of the weaker entries, but it's still better than any historical fiction you'll find this year.  I give it a 4.5.
4 Although this is not the best work (I'm partial to Flashman; Flashman at the Charge; and Flashman in the Great Game) of the Flashman series, it is still head and shoulders above most of the drivel that is being passed off as novels today.  In this adventure, my favorite cad, Flashman is involved in General Napier's Abysinnian expedition to free European hostages held by the unpredictable King Theodore.  Using his Flashy charm he woos and beds a bevy of women while fulfilling a secret mission to prepare the battlefield for General Napier.  His use them and abuse them style, makes for some hilarious predicaments as the jilted women, husbands, and boyfriends seek their revenge on the hero.  And as usual, this most loveable of cowards, comes out of his escapades smelling like a rose, what.
4 With "Flashman on the March", George MacDonald Fraser delivers the twelfth installment of the irreverent and politically incorrect Sir Harry Flashman Papers.  Like many of Fraser's fans, every two to three years I begin to eagerly scan the internet and Amazon.com to see when the latest Flashman book will be released. Where will Flashy's latest adventure take us?  Alas, I am sad to report the latest chapter in the chronicles is disapointing.  Dare say it, I fear that George Macdonald Fraser may be beginning to run out of steam.Fraser has his Flashman formula down pat.  All the classic elements that we expect to see in a Sir Harry Flashman novel are present.  Flashman running from his latest misadventure leaps out of the frying pot and into the fire and finds himself pressed into service as a secret envoy to a monarch in the wilds of outer Abyssinia. Flashman fights savages, beds beautiful women, acts like the all around cad that he is and suffers the usual misfortunes.  As always, Fraser delivers by introducing his readers to an exotic episode in Victorian history.While although all the usual elements are present, somehow it does not all come together in the end.  At the critical moment when the novel moves towards its climax, Flashman steps out of character.  As I read the last twenty pages, I wondered where is the arch-cad that I have learned to love?To be honest, I have given this installment four stars because I loved the eleven previous Flashman efforts.  If this were the first Flashman novel that I had read, it would have received three stars.  If you are new to the Flashman series, start from the beginning and read the first installment.  It is a great series that will bring you many hours of entertainment.
5 Flashman is back and it's about time too. This newly discovered memoir finds the infamous Victorian adventurer and cad in the wilderness of Abyssinia (modern Ethiopia) involved, as always with great reluctence, in an expedition to save British hostages from an insane King. With dusky maidens to the right of him, hordes of barbarian tribesmen to the left of him, Flashy has little but his wits and his quaking stomach to see him through unspeakanle dangers with his reputation (and his life) intact.
3 Generally speaking, I have quite enjoyed the dozen or so volumes of "The Flashman Papers." Now and then, the plot or the action falls down a bit but Fraser usually maintains control of his narrative overall and creates fascinating characters, most of them based on real people. So I don't know what is about this volume but it didn't do a thing for me. Not that it's a bad book. Just sort of "blech." The subject is the British military expedition into Abyssinia in 1868 for the purpose of rescuing a few dozen Britons and other Europeans being held captive, and tortured, by Emperor Theodore II, a certifiable madmen (no matter what present-day Ethiopian apologists may say). Now, while I'm pretty widely read in 19th century history, I confess I knew nothing whatever about this operation -- which, as Sir Harry notes, is perhaps the only one ever undertaken by British arms, and at considerable expense, for the most humane motives and not simply to enlarge and enhance the Empire. Perhaps the problem is that we've seen all this before. There's a template that Fraser follows in many of the Flashman adventures:1. Flashy arrives in a mysterious land, usually against his will.2. Flashy is dragooned into acting as an undercover intelligence agent for the Crown.3. Flashy narrates an interesting travelogue/anthropological survey.4. Flashy seduces/is seduced by a beautiful and dangerous female of considerable personal and political power.5. Flashy escapes from/bids farewell to said female.6. Flashy is threatened/imprisoned/nearly tortured by the Powers That Be.7. Flashy escapes by the skin of his teeth, fulfilling at least part of his mission in the process.8. Flashy's heroic resume is thereby enhanced.I think that's it in a nutshell. Perhaps I just need to lay off the Flashman books for a couple of years. I'll think about returning to this one later. But I wish Fraser had gotten around to giving us the full lowdown on Flashman's time in the Foreign Legion and with Emperor Max in Mexico.
5 Either you love this character or you don't.  I won't disclose the contents but it does bring the Flashman epic timeline together.
3 Flashman, the archtypical anti-hero takes on Africa in this installment of the series. A quick read, it is similar to and maybe even inspired the adventures of Captain Jack Sparrow. Plenty of lying, cheating and cowardice to spread around and still come out on top.
5 Sir Harry Flashman, everybody's favorite cad, lecher, coward, and bounder, is back!  As always, he finds himself on dangerous duty despite his best efforts to avoid it, and his cowardice, betrayal of allies, dishonesty, and general complete lack of any moral sense win the day.I'm most probably far from alone in having a great fondness for Sir Harry despite his thoroughly reprehensible behavior.This, like the other Flashman novels, is a quick and easy read, yet simultaneously teaches a good deal about history.Someone once aptly noted that true happiness is encountering the novels and stories of P.G. Wodehouse for the first time.  I certainly agree with that, and would simply note that it's true of the novels of George MacDonald Fraser, as well.
4 For anybody wanting three things in one - a fast-paced and exciting novel, a fairly learned history book and a well-written piece of literature - you don't need to look much further than Flashman.This twelth addition to the Flashman Papers - in order of publication if not chronology - sets sail in fabulous form, with greed, lust, derring-do rescues, beautiful maidens and rotten Europeans all adding to the mix, before the adventure really gets going.  We know we're onto a good thing from page one!While no later part of a set of novels is ever a good place to start reading the series, don't think that you have to have read all previous instalments to be able to understand this one.  All you need to know is that Flashman, the protagonist, is a liar, a coward, a serial fornicator and a cheat, motivated by greed, sex, a fear of losing his  (unearned)  reputation as a Victorian hero, and bare-knuckle survival.  Oh, and sex.This novel is as good as most, and better than many.  It falls something short of the classic books  "Flashman", "Flashman At The Charge", "Flashman In The Great Game"  and "Royal Flash"  but the editor of the papers, George MacDonald Fraser, has given us something that stands well above "...Dragon", "...Mountain Of Light", "...Lady" and others.  Flashman's hilarious acts of self-preservation, occasionally getting him into more trouble than he started in, can only be described as a cross between twisted genius and absolute spinelessness.  His outrageous treatment of his travelling companion, at one crucial and hair-raising moment in the story, was as dazzlingly wicked as anything he's ever stooped to before, and had me wide-eyed in shock and laughing out loud at the same moment.There isn't much of the whistful sentimentality in this book that has crept into the previous few volumes either - the narrative has had much of the stoical philosophy peeled away to let the razor-sharp wit and sardonic humour shine through beautifully.  Plus, of course, it's nice to see 'Flash Harry' back strapped to a murderously inventive torture device once every so often.  It's even better to laugh yourself silly at his gutless attempts to plead his way to safety.It needn't really be said that this is a must for fans.  The real question is whether it would stand alone as a novel in its own right, attracting readers who had never come accross Flashy before...  or whether it even needs to.  George MacDonand Fraser has given us doses of Flashman for decades now, and it could be argued that as long as the fans are happy that's all that matters;  but I started reading the books after seeing the film "Royal Flash"  (a very different style of humour from the book, in case you haven't had the opportunity to compare the two), and would hate to think there are people out there who would be put off by "March" simply because it was aimed at an established and in-the-know readership.To a certain extent, this book relies on a readership that doesn't need to be seduced, but the more satisfying news for me is that even if they did need it, they probably would be.  In many ways, that says more about the quality of the book than anything that trumpets loudly:  "He's Back!"
4 Ahh, jeez.  The first thing.  The first thing you notice and that you can't help but notice is the book cover painting.  For the first time in the history of the series, the front cover painting is done by someone other than the great Arthur Barbosa, who unfortunately passed away a good ten years ago.  It was truly a pleasure to study Barbosa's art work after reading a Flashman novel:  to see the characters;  to see their attire;  to see their weapons, some of which figured prominently in the novels.  And, of course, it was a delight to see Flashman, with his unholy grin and his British or native garb.  But no more.  Regrettably, the picture on the cover of this one is about as basic as it gets.  A cursory glance is all that it merits;  a foreboding omen.Flashman's adventure this time has to do with the British expedition in the late 1860s to Abyssinia--modern-day Ethiopia--in order to rescue captured English and European citizens from the mad King Theodore.  As usual, the historical aspect is accurate, the landscape and surroundings are marvelously detailed, and the personalities involved imaginatively rendered.  In other words, in these respects, it is a classic Flashman novel.What is missing, though, and perhaps only to a slight degree, is the overabundant sense of fun the earlier novels have.  As everybody knows, Flashman winds up in the middle of the historical events at which he is famous for being unwillingly, through his own folly and usually brought on by lasciviousness or spite.  How these escapades are traditionally contrived are hilarious, with Flashman squawking indignantly, then cursing his malefactors, then cowering fearfully before accepting his fate.  In this one the formula starts to wear a little thin, and the events leading to his involvement in Abyssinia are almost predictable.  Sure enough, he has an unscrupulous sexual affair, sure enough he has to flee the girl's protectors, and sure enouth he has to reluctantly agree to participate in the campaign with an English general he dare not refuse.  It's been this way in the last few novels and it almost seems in this one as if Fraser is rushing through it simply to get to the good stuff.But the "good stuff"--the historical angle--was never the meat of the Flashman novels to begin with.  It is not the grand historical events that make these novels wonderful--great as they are anyway--it has always been Flashman himself:  gambling with Speedicut, whoring in the Haymarket, goading Bismarck, insulting Morrison, skulking through Lahore, buying slaves in Mississippi, freeing them in Ohio, and on and on.  These are the best parts of the Flashman novels;  historical to be sure, but not necessarily Great Historical Moments.  We don't read Flashman because we want to learn about history;  we learn history because we want to read about Flashman.  In this one, the Great Historical Moment, as it were, is too much front and center, and in many long stretches the novel reads more like a history than it does an adventure.This perception is exacerbated by Fraser's explanatory note in the beginning, and by Flashman's ruminations on his looming demise later in the novel.  The feeling one gets is that it is no longer Flashman speaking, it is Fraser himself.  Which doesn't ruin it by any means.  It is still a wonderful, enjoyable read, and far better than most of the dreck out there.  It's just that it's not the same, and the enterprise as a whole has lost some steam.Nevertheless, it is with some consolation that one reads these somewhat caustic comments.  For Flashman, of course, the gloating is because he has outlived his enemies:  Starnberg, Ignatieff, John Charity Spring and the like.  But as to Fraser, one must wonder.Hopefully, the conclusion is that he has already penned other Flashman novels, especially the hugely anticipated American Civil War thing.  The guess here would be that he's got at least that, and perhaps a half-dozen more floating around out there, which would explain his saucy chuckle on the way to the sunset.One can only hope.  Fraser, even at his weakest--if that is the right word--is far superior to anything in his field.
4 Yet Another Flashman adventure, this time to Abyssinia, 1868, on a British rescue/punitive mission against mad King Theodore (Toowodoros) at Magdala. Another fine outing for Flashy, and more entertaining reading for us: ". . a tawny young beauty remarking to my captors: 'If we feed him into the fire, little by little, he will speak. . . .' Aye, it's an interesting country, Abyssinia.""Sir Harry Paget Flashman isn't just another eminent Victorian; he is also the stuff of legend and truly an inspiration to us all." -- Wash Post review (Google)Hard to believe Fraser been cranking these things out for almost 40 years. He's 81 now, but then, Flashy 'lived' to well past 90....Happy reading--Peter D. Tillman
5 Whatever you may think or feel when you read this latest release of The Flashman Papers, you will know that you are reading history.  George MacDonald Fraser is an authentic military historian.  Flip through the pages of The Steel Bonnets for proof.  If all you learn about the Crimean War, the Schleswig-Holstein Affair, The Indian Mutiny, or the Opium Wars is what you've seen through the eyes of history's most self-effacing hero, then you are still very well informed.  In Flashman on the March, Sir Harry, now fortyish, turns the tide in Sir Robert Napier's march on Magdala, in what is grandiosly known as The Abyssinian War of 1868.  Though less well known as are the above-mentioned events, it stands as a stunning achievement in British colonial power.  Sir Robert (Bughunter Bob, Flashy calls him) is dispatched to free some British captives held by a maniacal Abysinnian tyrant, King Theodore.  Even those of us who are ardent students of The Flashman Papers must admit that the Flashman formula has now become, well, formulaic.  But Frasier may rest assured that those of us who love his admirable protagonist would not have him change that formula one iota.  You cannot be disappointed with this grand adventure at the upper reaches of the Blue Nile, in the mountainous jungle of what we now know as Ethiopia.  Let me use Flashman's own words of reflection, "...I thought of that hellish beautiful land and its hellish beautiful people, of Yando's cage and the horrors of Gondar, of bandit treasure aswarm with scorpions, of the terrifying thunder of decent into a watery maelstrom, of a raving lunatic slaughtering helpless captives, of fighting women drunk on massacre, of a graceful she-devil aglow with love, and ice cold in hate..."  In my view this book stands with the very best of the Flashman Papers.  Sir Harry leaves no value unscorned, and he keeps us smiling throughout.  Oh, and don't wait for it to come out in audio, or video; as usual, there's too much uncomfortable truth embedded in the fiction.
4 I should begin by saying that I am a huge Flashman fan and rank George Macdonald Fraser as probably my all time favorite author.His prose is riveting, action superb and historical research meticulous.That being said, his last two 'Flashy' adventures have not moved me to the helpless laughter that have caused me to re-read the first 10 books at least a dozen times each. The history and detail are still meticulous and the adventure and characters still compelling, but I think that Flashy's character has in someway... mellowed. The only hint of the lovable self-centered rogue in Flashman on the March comes when Flashy boots a delectable young Abyssinian princess away when they're both in danger of plunging over a monstrous waterfall.Although this action is certainly reminiscent of the 'old Flashy', he seems to have been maturing into a somewhat more compassionate, understanding or at least a person with some bare degree of concern for his fellow man. Now that would and should be a trait to be welcomed with any 'normal' person (or protagonist) but I have to ask myself... would 'Flashy' really have matured? He seems a little more philosophical. But all that being said, reading Fraser and Flashman is kind of like making love. When it's good its fantastic and when it's not, it's still pretty darned good!.
4 A final addition to my Flashman collection.  It is a little different from his other adventures but lots of fun! I guess this is the end {so dont miss it} The author, George MacDonald Fraser, died some weeks ago. I will miss his Flashman adventures very much. God rest him.
4 Fraser has published the illustrious career of Flashman, who would have been forgotten if it had not been for Fraser having found the Flashman papers. Now we know that Flashman should be mentioned in the same breath as Queen Elizabeth, Alfred the Great, T.  E.  Lawrence, and Churchill. I can't think of any one man who has done more to bring the benefits of civilization to those savages in the hinterlands who live without the law.  He adds much wit to his chronicle as he talks about his acts of great daring. It's a combination of sadistic cruelty, soft porn, and comic imperialism that you might find funny if you don't get on your moral high horse. And to think that Flashman never really wanted to be hero. He was reluctantly pushed along by destiny. Some may say that his account is a bit too racy and revealing, particularly regarding his interactions with the opposite sex. But here too, Flashman is an innovator in an age when hardly anyone dared speak of S-E-X. Well, it just goes to show that great men have a great libido, always at the ready, but they never let it get the better of their cool, calculating heads in times of extreme danger. When it comes to survival, Flashman is a social Darwinist who does not let steamy and sentimental romances get in the way of his right to live.Flashman was a bit of an ethnographer and I suppose some would disapprove of his forthright observations about race, in an age that is rather touchy about the subject due to squeamish "liberals" and other assorted varieties of anti-fa nuts. But he had high praise indeed for the Abyssinian army and deplored Punch magazine's portrayal of Abyssinia as the land of the minstrel monkeys. As to imperial policy, Flashman wisely observes that if the British military occupies a country, there will be complaints about the costs of empire and selfish imperialism, but if they leave the country after the mission is accomplished, there will be complaints that the army was callously indifferent to the fate of the indigenous people who need to have their warring tribes pacified for peace. I will say that we Americans are also learning that the cost of keeping an empire means penury and high taxes for the plebs back home. Ever heard of "guns before butter"? But the Abyssinian expedition was a quick one-off to rescue some captured Brits. It was refreshingly direct way of handling the problem of hostages with none of the usual pussyfooting negotiations that we have come to tolerate in this decadent age.Flashman was especially brilliant with his psychological analysis of yet another dark-skinned madman ruler from the Dark Continent. His keen insights and quick thinking saved him from torture and death of other victims that he witnessed. I believe James Bond is modeled after Flashman, but Flashman has more of a sense of humor.
5 This may be one of the weaker entires in the Flashman Papers, but any Flashman is superior historical fiction. Anyway, in some ways it is right at the top, illuminating a forgotten historical event and making it come alive.Some grumpy conservatives have complained that in one or two places, G.M. Fraser lets his opposition to the war in Iraq show, but Flashman transcends politics and, while I am a firm supporter of the war, conservatives ought to lighten up. If leftists could champion the Flashman series despite the author's incorrect politics and support of imperialism, we conservatives ought to be able to overlook a single paragraph in the latest book. Anyway, King Theodore, whom Flashman and General Napier depose, is not even as bad as Saddam Hussein, and Fraser rightly praises that venture, so, like all Flashman novels - like all great literature in fact - you can take what you want from this book. Enjoying it all the way.
3 This book was written with the participation of Kevin Booth, a longtime friend of Hicks, so it does comes with a certain stamp of authenticity.  And AGENT OF EVOLUTION is certainly no hagiography; we see Hicks, the greatest standup comedian who ever trod the boards, at his best and worst.  The structure of the book, composed from a variety of viewpoints, Hicks' friends and lovers sharing their stories and remembrances, renders the volume choppy and disjointed. Episodes are told and then retold, each witness putting their own particular spin on events.  Really, the best Hicks autobiography is the one he composed, night after night, in his vitriolic, incendiary act. If you want to know about the REAL Bill Hicks, buy one of his CDs or rent one of his DVDs. You will quickly see why other comedians revered the man and fans are still enamored, even though the man himself departed this world almost 15 years ago.
4 I agree with other reviewers that this is a choppy and disjointed volume that would have benefited from a good, professional edit.  Frankly, it left me with more questions than answers.  Nevertheless, I must recommend it to Bill Hicks fans, because it captures many previously-undocumented aspects of Hicks's life, which was itself choppy and disjointed.  Bill departed this world with more questions than answers himself -- at a tragically early age.  Clearly, he was a very difficult man to know, and even more difficult to understand.  This book demonstrates that even his closest friends struggled, often in vain, to gain some measure of understanding of who he was and what he was looking for.  Though he was the best informed and most articulate commentator of his generation, it is a shame that he wasn't allowed more time to pursue his quest for meaningful answers to the deeper questions.
5 At long last, the definitive biography of the late American comedian and political philosopher Bill Hicks has been published. Written by his lifelong friend Kevin Booth, Bill Hicks: Agent of Evolution is an inside look at the fast times and early death of a comedic genius. When I spoke with Kevin for the interview that appeared in Maybe Quarterly # 02 (Spring Equinox 2005), he told me that he wrote the book by dictating "Bill stories" into a microcassette recorder as he took his pet wolves for their daily afternoon walk. This was a long process of remembering earlier days that had become clouded by both the partying and legend that now surrounds Bill Hicks, and Kevin mentioned that the process of writing this book took approximately five years.As I opened the book for the first time, I was immediately impressed by the twenty-four pages of exclusive color photographs. Taken from Kevin's own photo albums, these photos show the softer, private side of Bill Hicks. A few of these photos captured some of the infamous moments of Bill's life. For example, can you imagine the atmosphere when Bill partied with Sam Kinison, another of the Texas Outlaw Comics? The inclusion of the color photo section shows how well-respected Bill Hicks continues to be in the United Kingdom. As a matter of fact, Kevin states on his own website that when this book is published in the USA sometime in 2006 (most likely in paperback), he expects that the USA edition will not include the photos in their original color format.As for the book itself, Kevin, having admitted that he is not a writer, worked with Austin, Texas USA entertainment writer Michael Bertin, who co-authored the book. However, Kevin has done something that Cynthia True could not achieve with her tepid biography American Scream, and that is to take the reader far into the private and personal life of Bill Hicks. Kevin was, after all, his lifelong friend, co-writer, and business partner. Together, Kevin and Bill co-founded Sacred Cow Productions, which continues on to this very day in Bill's memory. Today, the Sacred Cow website is the premiere Internet comedy website, which features the comedy of Joe Rogan and Doug Stanhope, as well as the truth-telling of broadcaster-documentary filmmaker Alex Jones of Infowars.com and Prisonplanet.com. Sacred Cow also contains numerous early audio and video performances of Bill Hicks, and for this reason alone, the website should be investigated and bookmarked by all of Bill's fans.Kevin has been a tireless promoter of the memory and legacy of Bill Hicks, and he was wise to save all of his great inside stories for his own book. This was one of the failings of American Scream, which seemed to me a rote, perfunctory biography, with little in terms of true revelations concerning the life of Bill Hicks. For example, there is the legendary true-story of Bill and Kevin's Harmonic Convergence experience of the summer of 1987. This was the UFO experience about which Bill often spoke in his stage act. While Cynthia True reported this episode through hearsay alone, in Agent of Evolution, Kevin takes us directly to the Booth family ranch for what he himself described as "the most important event of Bill's life." I won't ruin the books' many surprises, but suffice to say that Kevin brings this event into proper perspective, where he describes total telepathic communication between Bill and himself, while they were both aboard a UFO. One might even imagine that this event was itself precipitated by the five-gram heroic dose of psychedelic mushrooms they both had taken earlier that same afternoon.And so it goes for nearly 450 pages of interesting and amusing anecdotes, legendary encounters with various geniuses of comedy, and the loving tribute by a man who desperately misses his lifelong friend and spiritual brother. The reader is taken on a trip in the metaphoric backseat of the Hicks rocket-ride to fame and infamy, and all of the humanity and romanticism of Bill Hicks the humanist is represented in a faithful and loving manner. Kevin also provides insight into the demons that haunted Bill Hicks, and the angels that guided his career and life.The best part of the entire book is where Kevin refuses to limit Bill to a two-dimensional cardboard cutout, where his life and early death could have been represented as a tragedy. Kevin also refuses to amplify the David Letterman censored Bill Hicks canard, and just as he told me personally during our interview, the Letterman incident was a minor issue that was blown all out of proportion merely because of Hicks untimely death. As Kevin said, "if he were alive today, we'd be laughing about this minor incident."Some of the more interesting sections of the book provided details about Bill and Kevin's comedic Dark Side of the Moon, the incendiary and brilliant Arizona Bay. For those readers who are unfamiliar with the concept, Arizona Bay will be the resultant West Coast, once California, but more specifically, Los Angeles, finally falls into the ocean. Arizona Bay represented the creative symbiosis between Bill and Kevin, comedy and music, and ultimately, truth and lies. Perhaps it is no coincidence that Hollywood propaganda originates from this very state of California? Listening to Arizona Bay, it is easy to imagine the contempt that Bill had for the illusory Hollywood star-making machinery, and this book fills in the aspects about which I had always wondered.Still another project of Bill and Kevin's involved the Branch Davidian siege at Waco in 1993. Bill drove while Kevin rolled film, and the result was the little-known but worthwhile video, On The Seventh Day in Waco. As Kevin wrote on the video package; "On March 8, 1993, Bill flew to Austin and rented a car. I packed all my camera stuff and we drove 2 hours north to Waco. We hoped to film David Koresh and his compound, 7 days after the bloody siege. Stopped by DPS [Department of Public Safety] officers, we quickly found a way around them." The resultant video shows several interesting, yet ultimately disturbing, facts that were kept off the establishment news. And, of course, Bill put all of this into perspective, in his own unique comedic voice; "Some are calling it a cult, others a slumber party that just really got out of hand . . ."Anyone who treasures the memory of Bill Hicks should pick up a copy of this book, as it was prepared in the most loving and respectful manner possible. The reader and Bill Hicks fan will learn more about what made Bill tick as an artist, whether it was music or comedy, or both. While it is sad that Bill is no longer here with us, I personally take solace in the idea that he is still busy at work, albeit on the other side, as for Bill Hicks in death, just as it was in life, his spiritual work is never done.
4 I expected the book to be good, but it was more interesting than I expected. It has stories from many different people who knew him personally.  There are tons of great stories and varied points of view. It also introduced me to some great performers I hadn't heard before, like Ron Shock. In the book, Ron Shock's voice is my favorite.
5 Having loved Bill Hicks for some time, and after reading other biographies of him, as well as his own scripts, I decided to read this book and was not disappointed. There is a depth to Bill's life that you see from the topics of his comedy but that gets lost in his more controversial jokes. This book shows you the other side to Bill and you realise his humour comes from an intelligent (which we already knew), almost spiritual place. It is fascinating to see how he developed his comedy and how he experimented and grew in his life. Told from the point of view of his best friend and peers, you feel that this is a very open and intimate portrayal. This is a great read about a great man. I wish he was here to comment on America and the world now!Feel free to check out my blog which can be found on my profile page.
4 Proulx's "Bad Dirt" captures the size, dryness and dust-blown reality of the Wyoming setting and throws a range of modern-day characters into the scene, complete with (her signature) odd names and even odder behavior. There are good guys and bad guys, heroes and protagonists. And in case the reader gets bored with things, she throws in a few fables to keep things interesting - something I had not seen in previous work.While this book is not as realistic as the first in the trilogy, it makes up for that fact with more colorful writing and more desperate situations. I was reminded of Proulx's "Postcards" in many of the stories, the writing has that same isolated, haunting tone. Proulx knows what it's like to live on a wind-blown prairie or a rocky scrub. She also reads human behavior well and is a keen observer. Taking both of these ingredients and carefully paring them down to their most salient elements is what she does best. The writing is spare and the dialogue even more so.One can't help but also sense of Proulx's own personality, dislikes and likes. Careful reading between the lines shows that while she respects many Wyoming residents' livelihood and history, she also knows it may be best to keep them at an arm's length. Her penchant for wacky names, laundry lists and spare dialogue show a peculiar - if not interesting - take on life and it's one that this reviewer finds intriguing enough to come back for more.-------(The following review is for "Just Fine the Way It Is", the last of the three Wyoming Stories. Amazon will not allow my review to appear on the actual product page, stating I bought them as a set and cannot review them separately, even though this is not the case, I bought each as a separate purchase)-------While still excellent writing, of the three books which make up the series "Wyoming Stories", this is easily the least cohesive and suffers from a few Twain-esque additions which mark an odd departure from the whole.Most of the stories are standard Proulx fare; evocative, timely and unique. I was particularly drawn to the final novelete, "Tits Up in a Ditch" because it covered the most ground and encompassed 3 generations of the Listers, a ranch family of lower economics and backward ways, making them both embarrassing and endearing. Another gem is "Testimony of the Donkey", which reveals the writer's own pith through the character of Catlin, a fiercely independent, modern boheme, who shows us that independent traits can be both rewarding and deadly.When Proulx stumbles, she does so with flair. "I've Always Loved This Place" and "Swamp Mischief" are both stories featuring the Devil, and - while interesting and slightly humorous to read - are both polished coal in an otherwise unique collection of fine stones. They're good efforts, but Mark Twain she ain't. As well, "Deep-Blood-Greasy-Bowl" lopes in to paleo-historic territory and diverges into a writing meter that didn't hold my interest as well as Proulx's familiar, homespun style. When I buy Proulx, I expect Proulx.These low points don't exactly ruin the whole, but they dent a good fender on the vehicle which Proulx drives beautifully around her beloved state of Wyoming.
5 This was the second Annie Proulx book of her Wyoming Stories, that I've read. I'm ready to go for a third!Her characters are drawn well, very human and often quirky. She gives you a real feel for the Wyoming country, the people who live there, and the ones who stay and survive. Some of her stories border on fantasy, and they are some of the most memorable. These are all short stories, three of them are worth reading over and over.My favorites: "The Hellhole" a very darkly funny story about what happens to people who break the fish & game laws. "The Old Badger Game" about a badger who's convinced a rancher's wife is crazy about him. "Summer Rental" is a lot of fun, and a novel way to deal with problem neighbors and their cattle. I can't recommend Annie Proulx highly enough! Reading her stories is like going to live in Wyoming, she paints her characters and landscapes so vividly, you feel like you are there.
1 I am SURE I would love this book if I READ it, but instead got it on audio. It was just awful It was a poor performance, not a narration, and I could hardly bear to listen to Dufris. I was on a long trip and had no other audiobook with me, but I stopped listening anyway. Silence was better than this.Maybe it is just me, but when I read a book, I do not imagine different voices for the various characters in a novel. So it annoys me no end when I listen to a book where the narrator plays different parts. To me, this is kind of creepy, epecially when a female narrator *plays* male roles or vice-versa. And it is really bad when the narrator/performer is not very good.Perhaps it would be helpful if the cover said "performed by" instead of "narrated by".I just want someone to read the darn book to me. I am not interested in listening to someone who thinks s/he is up for an acting award!
5 After 'Close Range', I held my breath that this wouldn't be a letdown.  It isn't.  Proulx keeps charging with her mesmerizing, uncomfortable stories of human fallibility set against a stunning landscape.  AP singlehandedly makes one wish the short story had more of a place in our literature.  A superb read.
2 Miz Proulx musta' gotten into a patch of locoweed while she was a'writing these stories.  Or maybe she has just grown tired of the spare landscapes and stubborn people she described so carefully in her first collection of Wyoming stories, AT CLOSE RANGE.  The subtle,somber hues of those stories have been replaced in BAD DIRT by a garish, psychedelic pallete.Gaudy colors do not, however, equate to warmth.  Proulx's stories are inflated, unfunny jokes and most of her characters are unattractive caricatures bearing improbable names like Fiesta Punch, Reverend Pecker, Suzzy New, Lobett Pulvertoft Thirkill, Mercedes de Silhouette, and Dr. Playfire.  The plots go beyond improbable.  A game warden discovers a hidden entrance to Hell in a Forest Service parking area and uses it to deal with out-of-state poachers.  A red-furred badger tells his cronies that a rancher's wife has fallen in love with him.  A bartender imports alligators to defend her vegetable garden from marauding cows.  An expatriate makes accidental use of a magic teakettle found when cleaning out her late mother's house.Despite heavy lardings of fictional biography and gratuitous back-story, the stories in BAD DIRT smell anachronistic.  They are the sort of tall tales the denizens of bars like the fictional Pee Wee's in Elk Tooth, Wyoming might tell about their parents or grandparents.  Yet Proulx's crusty eccentrics are mostly baby-boomers living in the first decade of the 21st century, not the first half of the 20th.Perhaps not coincidentally, the best story in the collection, "Man Crawling Out Of Trees" concerns transplanted easterners, like Proulx herself, learning to cope with life in Wyoming.  In the end, one of them flees back to New York.  Perhaps BAD DIRT is meant to be Proulx's exit line.
4 This volume of stories about Wyoming contains four fully developed, character-driven short stories interspersed with what feels like seven thinly disguised local anecdotes. Yet in both kinds of stories Proulx demonstrates a Faulkner-like skill at portraying agrarian locals coming head-to-head with modernity. The final (anecdotal) story, "Florida Rental", especially reminded me of Faulkner's "Spotted Horses" sequence from The Snopes Trilogy. And like Faulkner, Proulx seems to have an underlying affection (or at least respect) for all her characters, even the ones she seems to enjoy skewering.The substantial stories that I enjoyed are: "The Indian Wars Refaught" about a troubled young Sioux woman who reconnects with her sense of identity while sorting archival material related to the battle of Wounded Knee; "What Kind of Furniture Would Jesus Pick?," about one Wyoming rancher's decline in the face of changing times, a failed marriage, and sons who've gone their own ways; "Man Crawling Out of Trees" about an elderly couple who moved to Wyoming from the East and how each of them responds in radically different ways to the rugged terrain, taciturn populace, and sense of isolation; "The Wamsutter Wolf" in which the human characters are eerily shown to behave according to wolf pack mores. Of all the stories, these four come closest to matching the standard Proulx set for herself with "Brokeback Mountain." Also worth mentioning here is "Dump Junk," a story that interestingly moves beyond Proulx's very grounded sense of reality into the realm of fantasy.All in all, this is a pretty satisfying collection of stories.
5 I greatly enjoyed Proulx' Close Range collection of short stories,and Bad Dirt (subtitled "Wyoming Stories 2") is a very worthyencore.  The Close Range stories gave a wonderful flavor to therural areas of the state, the people, the land, the warm and therough sides, both past and present.  Some of the stories werehumorous, others were harrowing, some were a whimsical mix.  You'llfind just the same mix (and a bit more) in Bad Dirt.  You start offwith a 12-page story about Game & Fish Warden Creel Zmundzinski (whoturns up again in a couple of more stories) that begins in a nicestraightforward fashion, and then takes off into a kind ofhumorous Proulx-Stephen King joint venture (or perhapsProulx-King-Carl Hiaassen).Several stories center on the residents and the 3 bars in the tinytown of Elk City:  I very much like reading another of Proulx'short stories when I feel that I already know the characters well(one of these is a kind of Proulx-Hiaassen mix involving rentalalligators--it sounds bizarre, but the story works in a trulydelightful way).The best of the stories is The Wamsutter Wolf, and runs about 35pages.  Buddy Millar lives in a $40/month rental housetrailer5 miles out from the center of a small boomtown (almost alltrailers).  You don't get much for your $40 a month.  His onlyneighbors live close by in an even grungier trailer--a bully whobeat him up in high school, his wife and passel of grungy youngkids, one of whom is a 4-year-old alcoholic (his father believesthat learning to drink young avoids the problems that come withlearning later).  This is a horrifying and harrowing story--stronger than anything I remember in Close Range.  It's verytough, utterly realistic, and it left me wanting to see itexpanded to about 300 pages as a novel.Annie Proulx and William Gay (I Hate To See The Evening Sun GoDown) are the two best short-story writers I've read in manyyears--and both write excellent novels as well.
5 I've read Annie Proulx's earlier collection of Wyoming Stories (Close Range -- see my review of it if you'd like) and found this collection equally masterfully written.  Even as I get absorbed in each story, I can stand back and just admire the skill of using words to paint pictures of people and places.  Amazing!These stories struck me as being more cheeky than the Close Range stories -- not quite as poignant, but more toward the funny side.  But the tall-tale, mythical quality is still there, as is the spot-on description of the dusty, harsh, and utterly beautiful star of the book -- Wyoming -- and the dusty, harsh, and utterly beautiful people who dare to call it home.  We meet all kinds:  crusty ranchers, ex-urbanites, oil and gas workers, mountain men, wildlife agents.  Their lives intertwine within and between stories until the whole collection becomes one larger-than-life whole.  I got this book from the library, but liked it so much that it might be one that I'll actually add to my collection.  I can't recommend it highly enough -- go get it today!
3 Considerably weaker than Wyoming Stories 1.  Proulx is clearly in touch with Wyoming's geography and culture, and she creates some laugh out loud moments, but the endings to her stories are let-downs.
5 This is a great book.  Many of the stories had me laughing out loud.  I didn't find BAD DIRT as 'bleak' as CLOSE RANGE and POSTCARDS.  I almost didn't read it, because I found the two others listed above as just too much hardship and deprivation.  I kept repeating the word 'bleak' about Annie Proulx's writing, until I read BAD DIRT.  Give it a try, you won't be sorry.
4 As she proved with "The Shipping News", author Annie Proulx has an unmistakably intricate, often elegant writing style. The eleven stories that constitute her latest book are testament to her talent, though the short story format seems to undermine her ability to deepen her characters as much this time. In certain ways, that works just fine since the somewhat interrelated stories almost feel like parables set in her vision of a rural Wyoming caught in a downward economic spiral. She brings a tough yet big-hearted sensibility to her stories, some more than others. But on the whole the approach balances itself out well.My favorite of the bunch is "What Kind of Furniture Would Jesus Pick?", which despite its jokey title is actually a serious-minded distillation of the current red-state mentality. It's a compelling tale about a man who can't make a go of his ranch and what it's like to see your traditional way of life eroding on every front. Rancher Gilbert Wolfscale keeps at it, doggedly and half-hopelessly, fighting against the odds to save his land. The author writes about him with a tenderness worthy of a Horton Foote, and with a deep-seeded sympathy both for Gilbert's determination to stay on his home ground and also for his urge to flee. He receives a final blow when saline wastewater pits, the byproduct of coal-bed methane drilling on land next to his, start poisoning his own land. Ranchers are suddenly thrown together with eco-conservationists, but they get nowhere protesting against the politicians and gas company officials who favor proceeding with the drilling. Wolfscale ends up on the open road, driving for the sake of driving and not caring where he's headed. He's about the only character in ''Bad Dirt'' who receives the full measure of her love.Five of the 11 stories in ''Bad Dirt'' are little more than comic anecdotes about the eccentrics who inhabit Elk Tooth, whose sole distinction is its three popular bars -- Pee Wee's, Muddy's Hole and the Silvertip. In fact, a sixth tale, ''The Old Badger Game,'' is hardly a story at all but an odd animal fable that some drunkard would have told in one of those taverns. The other story worth highlighting is "Man Crawling Out of Trees", which describes through the eyes of a retiring New York couple, the difficulties of being a newcomer to Wyoming. The wife bears the loneliness as best she can, while her husband delights in long drives through his new surroundings, classical music blasting from his car stereo. Through a series of revelations, a flawed marriage is exposed, and the power of place collides with their reality in unexpected ways, and  Proulx is careful not to tip her hand toward where her deepest sympathies lie. As a whole, "Bad Dirt" hangs together nicely with recurring minor characters tying the stories unobtrusively. With the exception of a couple of stories that simply seem out of kilter with the rest, Proulx's book certainly makes the ranchland atmosphere of an economically downtrodden but physically beautiful Wyoming come to life.
5 I have been a fan of Annie Proulx's for quite some time and finally got around to ordering this set of short stories. And I was not disappointed. The writing is beeautiful evoking the best of the landscape and the people. With each story, I really want to try and experience her Wyoming for myself. I highly recommend everything she has written!
4 This author writes with a depth of knowledge of her locality.  You find yourself unable to put the book down, and the biggest disappointment is reaching the end, and wishing there was more.  Annie Proulx knows human nature, and is not afraid to delve between the shiny surfaces and pull out the grimy undercurrent which motivates her characters.  A must read for real escapism!
5 This book has hilarious short stories that totally capture the way of life out here in the REAL West..  Annie must live the life and know the characters personally to have created such rich little stories about people I swear I know.  I live in a small town in Idaho and I've long thought about writing about the characters around here, but I didn't think anyone would believe me.  She even slips in a tall tale or two which you are suckered into for a few pages before you realize, no.... wait..... that can't be, even though it's a nice thought!  I've shared this book with my whole family and they love it too.
4 bad dirt, book 2 of wyoming stories by annie proulxharsh rural life in wyoming, the nature and background of who settled there first was good. the nature really enthalledme to keep reading, such beautiful things in life.
5 These remarkable short stories are equally masterpieces that one does not get bored reading them  repeatedly. The depiction of rural life is amazing.The stories are equally compelling with vivid descriptions, beautiful narratives and brilliant plots. Like The Usurper and Other Stories, A twist in the Tale and the Works of Anton Chekhov, this collection is a part of my list of good stories  and books. They made me laugh a lot and I learned something from every one of them.
5 This book of stories depicts the life of the sparsely populated lands of Wyoming.  The hardscabble, tough fought life for existence is depicted with Proulx' usual excellence.  Her language is that of the Wyoming environment.  Her characters are the wind toughened, deep winters folks of the life that tests each and every persons ability to cope with a severe environment.Her stories are loosely connected through the bars that the people of Wyoming patronize and some of the characters that reappear from story to story.  From her story about the devil's hole that consumes people in flames, to the unique method of keeping cattle off one's land, the stories are true and bare portrayals of an existence of challenge.The book is recommended to all readers who like great prose and excellent depictions of hard lives with which Annie Proulx is so familiar.  Her life in both Wyoming and Newfoundland allows her to observe how those that live in such challenging territories manage to keep on going.  Once again, Proulx creates a wonderful portrait of life under stress.  It is a truly fine read.
5 I enjoyed the CD of this book very much!  I don't see the audio version of BAD DIRT for sale here at Amazon, but if you enjoy books on tape and Annie Proulx stories, try to get these CDs.  I don't recall the reader's name, but he does a fantastic job telling the stories and voicing the various peculiar characters of Proulx's Wyoming.  And the stories themselves are amazing, at times harrowing, at times laugh out loud hilarious.
5 The scenic, hardship, and roughness of the Wyoming ranching wilderness is painted in a lasting reading impression done in a short-story gold-nugget format.Never before has the changing and past American West been so quirkily idolized.  And done so well.Human behavior is captured in such a colorful, poetic, detailed manner unlike anything I have ever read.  Some of the word choices demonstrate excellent wordsmithing that succinctly create a picture.  The sexual relationships among characters give each story grist, realism, and lasting impact where no man has gone before.There are bar stories in this volume that trigger giggling that would be worth in $50 of antidepressant medication with no side effects!I thought the first story "The Hellhole" oddly enough reminded me of Satanic Verses and the schizophrenic, psychedelic nature of the thinking processes of the characters in the book satirized from a humanitarian perspective.  Perhaps drinking induces a similar effect in bar tall-tail telling folklore.As some have written, I too think Annie Proulx has a Steinbeckian style when describing the American West, but I don't think this volume's tone is as serious as the first and is more humorous.  This and the prior volume reminded me of 10th grade English when I read American short stories and developed some knowledge of American authors and literature.  I can imagine some of her stories being selected to be included in such textbooks some day!I have a rough time picking one story from the book as my favorite since each is such a colorful jewel.  I tend to think you need to read the entire book as a collage of life experiences to see the big picture of Wyoming culture.I truly loved this book and the prior volume and I think Annie Proulx is one mighty fine writer.
3 Having just finished "Close Range," awed by Proulx's unique language of the Wyoming landscape, I was frankly disappointed by the stories in "Bad Dirt."  These stories reveal a placid Proulx whose stories are so uncharacteristic, that they seem written by another author.  Admittedly, the characters are similar, and the country is as barren and unforgiving.  But Proulx holds back, and one senses that she has simply run out of steam, like one of her aging, spent ranchers.
5 Once again, Annie Proulx has "painted" a masterpiece of individuals, locations and situations.  I find myself totally immersed in every one of her stories.  Would I personally want to be associated with any of these strange characters and/or plights?  Probably not, but I certainly do enjoy becoming a part of their lives through the pages of Ms. Proulx's books!  I look forward to her next collection!
5 Annie Proulx is simply one of the best story tellers of the 20th & 21st centuries. These collected short stories are among her best.
5 These stories range from mildly funny to utterly bizarre, and as I savored each tidbit I could barely wait for more. Heck, this was worth reading just to get acquianted with folks with names as Runyonesque as can be. The whole assemblage ends up with the flavor of modern fairy tales; in the end, a lesson is learned, good wins over evil, the prince & princess live happily ever after. Sort of, in a crooked way. I liked the connectivity, the fact that because I'd read about a character in one story I already had the inside scoop on him or her as played out in a subsequent tale. And of course the "character" of Wyoming plays out across the whole book. This book is a good summer read.
3 I am disappointed in the stories.  They are ... depressing.  Still she has a good variety and, as usual, she is great at representing the land and the people as you think they probably are.
4 For critical readers, AP's second, sometimes brilliant volume of short stories about Wyoming, contains covert warnings against living or retiring in the state. "Bad Dirt"'s 11 stories are good to excellent, with two exceptions, the opening story and the story about badgers. The state of Wyoming is said to have a population "large enough to fill a phone booth". They may be poorly educated, but are surely used to and prepared for natural disasters of any sort and no stranger to disasters of the private kind. Wyoming's failures leave and rarely return. In this book Buddy Millar does return and sets new standards for failure. Wyoming's escapees who made good only return to manage the spoils of death, such as the descendents of the couple who died aged 102 and 101, to sort out what to do with the land and a house full of hoarded junk. Another story sketches the difficulties of wealthy East Coast retirees to integrate.A running theme in this volume is the Pee Wee bar in Elk Tooth (pop. 80), one of 3 profitable bars there with steady customers from within a radius of 60+ miles. Pee Wee's bartender Amanda and Creel, a regular who combats illegal hunting and fishing, provide material for four other stories.AP never writes stories aiming to score with a final punch line. When it happens, it is a bonus on top of emphatic writing, great dialogue, and foremost, deep research in terms of oral and written history to gain a thorough understanding of the skills needed to survive in Wyoming (and/or Newfoundland, New England, other states and areas she graced with her writing). It is an ode to struggling "fly-over America", ignorant of the intentions and hostile to any type of government interference in their lives. Great writing, great book.
5 Annie Proulx is one of the finest living American writers.  She is gifted at crafting longer works of fiction that explore the complexities of some very unique people, but also equally talented at creating short stories about similar characters that are just as lasting.  "Bad Dirt", a second collection of short stories set in her beloved and tested Wyoming, is a collection that offers pathos and humanity and humor along with a little of the fantastic.One of the standouts in this collection is "Men Crawling Out of Trees" about a pair of New York transplants whose marriage is crumbling and who will never quite fit in among their adopted neighbors, no matter how hard they try.  "The Wamsutter Wolf" is a harrowing look at the bleakness of life for those who have few options to leave a depressed state, and "The Indian Wars Refought" is a heartfelt examination of the ranching life and the impact of reservation life for Native Americans.  Proulx tempers her longer stories with short gems, like the initial "The Hellhole" about a Game and Fish Warden who discovers a remarkable (and perhaps miraculous) way to dispose of criminals.In each story, whether serious or downright humor-driven like "Florida Rental", Proulx creates characters that are real and believable.  It would be impossible to surpass some of her previous masterpieces in terms of short stories, like "Close Range" and "Heartsongs" but "Bad Dirt" reaffirms what an incredible writer Proulx is.  It would be far praise indeed to say that she just might do for the West what Flannery O'Connor did for the South.  She has a way of creating stories and characters that sear into your imagination and will not leave.  The bad dirt of Wyoming definitely makes for some excellent storytelling.
5 I started with the hugely acclaimed popular fiction,'Shipping News' and have worked myself through most of Proulx's output. 'Bad Dirt' is a second round of shorter pieces on the town folk of her region. I suspect they are based on actual folk and I wonder how she fares with those who can 'spot the influence', as for the most part the characters are resourceful types but subject to the author's merciless mirth. I'm not there, or party to these truths. So I can sit comfortably and howl with laughter at the excruciating, often sad characters who have an exotic appeal even in the ring of their names, so removed from the Australian lexion. Other than for the names,many of these tales could have been sourced beyond the perimeter of our sprawling cities. It's for this humourous side and for a greater eveness of quality that I rate this above its predecessor. And for the sense of community that emerges through the repetition of names and venues, and the remorseless struggle to eek it out there it such formidable an environment. Proulx has really seen something there, and she is in total command of placing you in the seat along side herself. Would Ang Lee revisit Proulx for a set of these Northern Exposures?
5 There is a lot of grit, gumption, sorrow, and disappointment in BAD DIRT, but I haven't so much enjoyed a collection of short stories in a long while.  This is the real American West, not the faux one of Ralph Lauren and Jackson Hole.  The characters are, for the most part, hardworking and barely holding on, and they manage to get through life with a lot of puck and determination.Annie Proulx's prose, though plain and straightforward, positively sparkles.  Seemingly every page features one or more dead-on succinct descriptions and scintillating similes.  The tales proceed with magnificent pace.  In each story, Proulx deftly sets up a dramatic dilemma out of rather prosaic material, and then in the last few pages she swiftly resolves it, usually with a wry twist.  Though three of the stories are fables or fairy tales, their milieu, as with the others, is the real Wyoming of the early twenty-first century.  And throughout, there is crackling humor.For example:  When a transplanted New York architect first meets the widow rancher who is his neighbor and who, though in her mid-seventies, still runs cattle and some sheep, he "shook the old woman's hand, feeling the coarse, hard fingers gripping his own with remarkable strength.`How's your teeth?' she said.  `Pretty sharp?'`I don't know,' said Mitchell, nonplussed by the odd question.  'Why?'`Always lookin for somebody help us castrate lambs.'"I was reminded of Richard Ford's "Rock Springs", but BAD DIRT is even better.  It is not quite great literature, but it sure is literate storytelling.  This was my introduction to Annie Proulx, and you can now count me as one of her fans.
5 Annie Proulx tickles me. I loved "Shipping News" for its mix of quirky characters, dark humor, sentiment, sheer scariness, and the impact of an isolated and starkly beautiful landscape. Much of this shows up again in her short stories set in Wyoming, where isolation and economic contingencies tend to get a strangle hold on the people who live there. The tough survive OK, but only by fierce determination and good luck, of which there is scarcely enough to go around.The stories range from brief comic interludes, existing sometimes chiefly for the sake of a punch line ("The Old Badger Game" and "Summer of the Hot Tubs"), to humorous yarns about colorful local characters ("The Trickle Down Effect"), to longer accounts of people up against unwelcome circumstances with every potential of crushing them. The marriage of a retired New York couple in a massive log house on a ranchette starts to crumble under the pressure of a Wyoming winter ("Man Crawling Out of Trees"). A 4th-generation rancher is squeezed into a desperate corner by rising costs, falling prices, coalbed methane drilling, and a disintegrated family ("What Kind of Furniture Would Jesus Pick?").A hundred years of Wyoming history are compressed into a story about the fortunes of a wealthy polo-playing family, the empty shell of which is invaded by descendants of the massacred at Wounded Knee ("The Indian Wars Refought"). And finally, in my favorite story of the bunch, a young man trying to pull his life back together finds himself in a nightmarish situation involving a violent neighbor ("The Wamsutter Wolf"). This one had me sitting up past my bedtime, wide-eyed in the night and heart pounding.The tone of the stories varies with the publication they were written for, and these range from The New Yorker to the literary quarterlies, to Playboy. Once you get over that, you can settle back and just let Proulx pull out whatever stops she cares to, to create one heck of a read - and one right after another.Readers who enjoy her broadly humorous Elk Tooth stories will enjoy Robert Welsch's comic collection, "It's Not the End of the Earth, But You Can See It From Here," set in fictional Centralia, Nebraska.
5 As I expect from Proulx, a collection of unforgettable stories. She is a master teller and Wyoming, with all its warts and strange people, comes alive as few places I can imagine. For a good read, this volume can't be beat.
1 The characters are one dimensional, the plot lines meander and go no where, and the narration is tedious to the point of insanity. Wyoming is a wild and beautiful place, but her descriptions are as evocative as a suburban shopping mall. The only reason this book was published is because some of Proulx's other books have been commercial successes. The only good thing about this book is that I didn't pay for it. If you want great short stories, check out Tobias Wolff, Raymond Carver, Richard Ford, etc. Leave this one on the bargain table where it belongs.
4 This is the coda to "Close Range," E. Anne Proulx's blockbuster about life on the range.  I liked this collection quite a bit, found it more approachable than "Close Range." Most memorable was "The Summer of Hot Tubs," a hilarious story that you can imagine being told after dinner. It seems that Proulx has lightened up, has let her characters really speak for themselves.Western HorsemanThe Straight StoryThe Cowboy KindMaking a Hand: Growing Up Cowboy in New Mexico
5 Captivating book that I've read too many times to count!  Fall in love with Sheila, she's worth it!
5 My 13-year-old daughter first read this book and was so moved by it that she encouraged me to read it as well. Like my daughter, I was riveted to this book and could not put it down. The main character, Sheila, just enters your heart and being. You are horrified and heartbroken by her experiences, but inspired by her innate goodness and many other special qualities. Equally so, you are fascinated by Torey Hayden -- the author of the book and the teacher who believed in Sheila so fiercely and never gave up on her. Through Hayden's words, you learn to see past the superficial aspects of Sheila's behavior.My daughter & I went out and bought all of Hayden's other books as well, incl. the sequel to this book.This book is for anyone who cares about, and believes in, children. I especially think this should be required reading for politicians or education administrators who are contemplating the cessation of special education programs!
5 This book is a one night read. It was so compelling I couldnt put it down. Torey Hayden draws in her readers from finish to end.A work of art.
5 I thought this book was great. You could generally feel the passion the teacher had for her students, especilly Sheila. I thought the ending was great as well.
5 This is truly one of the most inspiring books I have ever read.  Torey Hayden has truly raised the bar in working with children and has, in pioneer fashion, blazed new trails and set new standards.Sheila, a 6-year-old girl living in grinding poverty and raised by her single father faced some daunting odds when she entered Torey Hayden's special needs class.  Abandoned by her mother, beaten by her father and facing a court ordered sentence to a hospital after a particularly violent episode, Sheila was extremely aggressive and wary.  Since she had no bathing facilities in the home she shared with her father, Sheila was often dirty and underfed.  It is a true testament to her courage and Torey Hayden's belief and persistence that Sheila began confiding in her within 3 days of her classroom placement.  I like the way Torey Hayden started a grooming routine for Sheila, which positively impacted her behavior and interactions with others.Sheila entered that classroom under very inauspicious conditions.  The court ordered that she at least be educated until the state hospital opening was available.  In that class, Sheila flourished and even made overtures to her classmates, some of whom functioned well below age level.Luckily for all, Torey Hayden was able to recind the court order; Sheila stayed in that class for the remainder of the year and made quantum leaps and bounds.  During an early testing session it was determined that Sheila had an IQ of 182.  This highly gifted little girl was able to express herself eloquently.  Quick to assess people and situations, Sheila had developed a survival mode early.  In that class she used her natural endowments to her advantage.The gifts this child had to offer and the gifts she received in that class are a song to the soul.  There is a poignancy about her courage.  She is, to a large extent, accepting of her life conditions and makes the best with available resources.This is a book that will evoke just about every possible emotion, from sadness to anger to cheering gladly.  The close of the term is indeed bittersweet; the parting of teacher and pupil is very moving indeed.  One sees the progress Sheila has made and marvels at what this child unknowingly had to give.
4 Torey Hayden is a great person and author.  This woman had a great talent with children and helping them recover and heal.  I wish every school had at least one teacher in them that was like Torey.
5 I read this book several years ago and it still is one of the best books I have ever read.  I love Torey and I love her books, but this is by far my favorite.
5 Loved It !!!!! Had read it in college...... Always a great re-read....... Made an impact on my teaching experiences. To touch a child's heart is the greatest gift of all............  ~
5 ALL I CAN SAY IS THAT I RECOMMEND ANYTHING THAT TOREY HAYDEN WRITES.  I HAVE READ ALL HER BOOKS, AND THEY ARE MAGNIFICENT!CONNIE DALY
4 I found value in the reviewer who related the history of the eugenics movement to the gifted child movement. However, we're all biased. Perhaps the issue was that if Sheila wasn't gifted she may have been institutionalized. I seldom read books cover to cover for various reasons of time and life situations. I was hell bent however at being a social worker or something of that nature at one point, and I ate this up. I read it all, and I cherish the emotional bent that keeps these women fighting for kids and loving when it's hard. This is essentially a beautiful story whether you buy it or not. I don't find it strange thAt Torey would seek out Sheila if only for her second book about it as it can't be so really: It must be so rewarding to see someone flourish that you helped and who cared for you aNd vice versa.
4 Working in education, I find Hayden's books a good read. It's always interesting to know how other professionals deal with the most horrific cases of abuse. I find her quite self-deprecating as well, able to admit when something just didn't work or when she made errors of judgement.One Child is my favourite of her books; the emotions involved in educating this child are very intense. However, some reviewers' comments about the level of attachment, confidentiality laws and physical contact with the child (lots of hugging etc) are justified. I believe she did get far too emotionally attached to this girl (and vice versa as a consequence), causing further problems. That simply would not be allowed to happen these days. Remember she is recalling events from the 1970s, when things were very different. I would be around Sheila's age then, and I remember similar affection and cuddles from  teachers.I am from the UK and although I am bearing the era in mind, I am still shocked at the poor quality of social work in this story. Migrant workers in our country would receive a council flat and benefit payments, and their kids would probably be the best dressed ones in class! Maybe, after reading this tale, that wouldn't be such a bad thing. How can children be allowed to live like that?Perhaps we do need to change the laws and allow teachers to be surrogate mothers again. It seems some kids don't have anything else.If you loved this book you will probably already have looked at some of her others, but I particularly recommend The Tiger's Child (the sequel to this) and Ghost Girl, which will leave you wondering about the sanity of this world.
5 This book is SOOOOOOOOOOOO good! For any aspiring teachers out there, I really recommend this book. It teaches you all of the things that school doesnt prepare you for. Such a great book, the second I finished it, I ordered the sequel right away! I'm currently waiting for it right now to arrive any day!!
5 I THOUGHT THIS BOOK WAS EXCEPTIONAL. AT THE ENDING I DIDN'T KNOW WHETHER TO CRY OR BY HAPPY FOR TOREY AND SHIELA.  GUESS IT IS A LITTLE BIT OF BOTH. TOREY HAYDEN, YOU ARE A WONDER!
5 This was a beautiful story, illustrating the perseverance and courage of young victims of abuse and neglect. It's funny though; after reading it, I conjectured that Sheila rebounding the way she did at age 6 was hard to believe. After undergoing severe abandonment from her mother, ongoing physical and verbal abuse by her father, and right after surviving severe sexual molestation, she accepted the leave-taking of the only person who had ever loved her, her teacher, Torey. She did not take it easily, and she clung to the story of the Little Prince, which helped, but still! I thought that either the story wasn't true or Sheila's acceptance was actually a self-injurious defense mechanism that would later be exposed. Researching the book after I read it, I realized that the book is a true story. In a sequel titled, The Tiger's Child, I learned that Torey again re-entered Sheila's life and continued to support her. Yet the abuse Sheila incurred had been serious and despite her high intelligence, we learn that she struggled greatly after Torey's departure and on into her adolescence.Reading the reviews on Amazon, I noted that a few blamed Torey for leaving Sheila at the end of the year. They said that it was her fault that Sheila experienced such turbulence later in adolescence. I feel that those reviews may well have been written by people who themselves never completely healed from abandonment and still ache inside. The truth is that Sheila's fear of abandonment was caused by her early childhood trauma of being left on the side of the highway by her mother. It does no good to blame one who loves such a wounded bird, even if it was in the context of a short-term relationship. Because of the nature of Sheila's wound, even if Torey committed to staying with her for life, Sheila would have still continued to struggle with a false sense that she is prone to getting abandoned. Healing from that type of wound requires a long-term process that involves recognizing the deception of the false beliefs and emotions and using truth to fight them.Though Torey made some mistakes, her time with Sheila was overall positive because, like a flower, her love allowed Sheila's heart to be opened to the possibility that her emotions and false beliefs were wrong. In the last few chapters, it appeared that Sheila was able to understand Torey's departure cognitively, if not emotionally. The only aspects I would have changed about Torey's approach would have been to ensure that Sheila knew well ahead of time that she would be leaving. I would never have let her call me "mother" or "father" because it is not true; children can easily mistake fantasy for reality. Also, from the very beginning, Sheila should have been seeing a child therapist who could keep helping her on a more long-term basis.What an incredible story, more so because Torey really is the loving teacher she wrote about, and because Sheila is the child whose resilience inspires us all! I ask God to give me the courage to love abused kids unconditionally as Torey did, yet also the wisdom to know when to employ healthy boundaries to keep those children safe.
5 This amazing true story is about a violent 6-year old.  You will be amazed by the details of how her teacher--Torey Hayden--reaches out to this child with special needs.  This book is a must for teachers and parents.
5 This is the 2nd book I've read from author Torey Hayden and it is the most emotionally riveting book I have read in a very long time. In this book we read about 6-year old Sheila temporarily sent to Hayden's special ed. class. Sheila comes in as an angry revengeful little girl and in a period of 5 months, blossoms into a flower full of joy and happiness. Hayden's book shows much of the ups and downs with her relationship with young Sheila. Nevertheless, it still shows positive progression. It lends credence that when dealing with emotionally disturbed children, the issues aren't always black and white, for I was clearly appalled with Hayden's accounts of Sheila's actions. However, as I continued to read, I discovered the reasons why Sheila acted as she did and this was due to her background situation with her mother and father.One thing that I did not like is that I felt Hayden's departure to pursue academics was in a sense, abandonment on Sheila's part. While I can understand the reason for it, I felt that it left Sheila too vulnerable into eventually thinking Hayden left her as well. With the Tiger's Child as the sequel to Sheila's story, I'm sure my reasoning will probably be addressed.And I agree with Hayden in the beginning: Sheila is a survivor.
3 I gave this story 3 stars because I found it enjoyable to read but much of the details are strange and doubtful. In the first place, A child as neglected and abused as this would have ended up in foster care especially after the incident with her uncle. The incident with the uncle certainly could have happened but she would have ended up in a facility or foster care. A school system would never have a child waiting 2 hours at school for the high school bus. High school kids get out much earlier than grade school kids so I don't know where that all came from. A school district could not have a teacher stay 2 hours with one student because of liability and the teacher contract. A pricipal would never tolerate the professional boundries Ms. Hayden crossed. This certainly may have been an intelligent child but an IQ of 182? Come on. I guess it sold the book.
5 I have read &#34;One Child&#34; many times and every time I read it I enjoy it. As a former SPED teacher working with behaviorally disordered children I have utilized many of her ideas into my own classroom. This is a story that shows the importance of teachers really caring about their students not just &#34;teaching&#34; them the  &#34;curriculum&#34;.
5 i chose this rating beause i read this book all day it was that interestingits so terrible that this child went thru such horrible tratment
5 This book will inspire you to make a difference.  I read this book in a single afternoon.  Excellent!
5 My second book by Torey Hayden, but definitely not my last.ONE CHILD is the story of Sheila, a young girl who was abandoned on the side of a highway by her mother. Now the charge of her drunken father, Sheila is wild, sometimes crazy, and never cries.What follows after her arrival in Ms. Hayden's classroom (following an incident that is truly chilling) is the relationship that grows, in a short period of time, between Sheila and Torey.A very good but emotional read. I highly recommend it, and also recommend picking up a copy ofThe Tiger's Child, which is the continuation of Sheila's story.
5 This is one of my favorite books that I have ever read.  It really big difference in the way I look at things.  This is a great book for any kid to read because it tells a story of one girl who was able to overcome her difficulties.
4 At age six, Sheila had already endured a lifetime of horrors. Her mother abandoned her on a highway at age four; her alcoholic father neglected and traumatized her. Thus, it was scarcely a shock to anyone when the coarse, hate-filled child attacked a three-year-old boy, nearly burning him to death.At such a tender age, Sheila's fate seemed inevitable - a lifetime in a psychiatric ward. Yet while the state awaited placement, they decided to put her in Hayden's special needs classroom.Initially skeptical of a child with such a background, Hayden nonetheless did her best. Quickly, she glimpsed an intensely intelligent child, who longed for love and acceptance.This wasn't to say it was an easy job. Nor was there any fairy-tale ending. Often, Sheila went into uncontrollable rages, damaging property, once even throttling pet gerbils when she perceived she had been wronged. Yet after glimpsing the inner Sheila, Torey Hayden refused to give up on her.Then one day, several months after Sheila arrived in Hayden's classroom, the teacher received a call -- the psychiatric hospital was ready for Sheila. Despite having made a breakthrough with the child, would Sheila's life really be taken away before she had a chance to start it?As always, Hayden's stories about the children with whom she has worked are deeply moving and memorable. By no means does she attempt to portray herself as a miracle worker; she freely admits her mistakes along with her triumphs as she merely dedicates her life to helping turn young lives around.Readers interested in learning more about Sheila may be interested in the sequel, The Tiger's Child, which picks up when the girl is 13 and recently reunited with Hayden.
5 This book was a sad and true story.  It was a heartwarming story of a  teacher's love for a student that everyone (including her own family) had  given up on.  I would recommend this book to anyone!
5 The main thing about this book is its lesson for teachers that they should not let their initial gut reaction to any child influence the way they treat them or teach them. You never know just how important the smallest things you do may be to some of your students.
5 Like all Hayden's books, this one grabs you and never lets go. The  children are truly amazing in their ability to survive in a world that  treats them like property.  They have a level of  insight and soul that is  rare in adults.  Sheila's transformation is remarkable.  It is a testimony  to Hayden's abilities that her behavior had improved by the end of the  first week.  THIS IS A WONDERFUL BOOK.
5 This is one I could not put down.  Possibly Torey's best book!Shelia, a bright 6-year-old girl who tied up a 4-year-old and set him on fire and was put in Torey's "crazy kid" class until a space opened up in the State mental hospital for her.  She had a high IQ, was a bed wetter, had an abusive, alcoholic father and was abandoned on a freeway by her mother who kept her younger brother.  She was quite a terror, but Tory "tamed" her and became very attached to her.  She was cut bad by her uncle who raped her and was in the hospital for a month.  She was able to enter regular classes again.  Very good book, but left you wondering what happened to Sheila.  Have to read the sequel:The Tiger's ChildKaren Arlettaz Zemek, author of "My Funny Dad, Harry"
5 I don't know why as I sit here glancing through books this evening I'm drown to the memory of a book I read repeatedly through my teens and 20's.  This book and the depths of mental, and psychological hell still resound within my soul.  Although after a few decades, I can't remember the details, I can remember, that it's a book worth paying to own again.  I remember the beaten up copy of my paperback that is falling apart if I still have it packed away somewhere.  I was so excited to see that that the author comes from a psychological background, and I'm excited to re read One Child and start into the other two books that she has written.  What a blessing I ran into this page tonight.  If you haven't read this yet, at least use the take a peak feature or see if your local library has the book.  You don't want to miss this one.
5 I read this book many, many years ago, and still remember it clearly.  This story of a troubled young girl, and the special ed teacher who manages to reach through to her, is amazing, inspiring, and so completely memorable.I cried more than once while reading their tale, was horrified, and proud, and a jumble of other strong emotions--because, not only is the story an amazing one, but it is written so well, so engagingly, that you lose yourself in their lives and struggles, and feel a close connection to them when they succeed and fail.I recommend this book highly, but warn you to have Kleenex handy when you read it!
3 I don't remember this purchase, have not read the book, think it was donated to a school library from their wishlist, service ok
5 Torey Hayden has written a true masterpiece.  For all of us, who manage to complain about...oh my clothes are not the most trendy, or my mom did not make it on time after school, or the food did not taste "right," this is a must read. In a flawless narrative, Hayden reveals some of the most cruel, harsh, and painful realitities so prevalent in our society, and somehow makes you smile, laugh, and--inevitably--cry. All within a couple hundred pages. A true page TUrner.
5 This book is unlike any other I have ever read before. It tells the tale of how Sheila, an abused, neglected child, is put in teacher Torey Hayden's class only because the hospital doesn't have room yet. Torey first feels frustrated then comes to know Sheila and shows her how to deal with all her extreme emotions. This book was so well written I cried at points, and it was definitely the most emotional book I have ever read. Now, when I compare it to my favourite book, my favourite book seems wimpy. Perhaps this is indeed my new favourite. It was absolutely amazing. Torey Hayden is a remarkable person and a wonderful writer as well. I am looking forward to writing the sequel.
5 I read this book years ago when I was in elementary school because I wanted to understand WHY people do this to children, sometimes including their own children.  I wanted to rationalize it, to figure it out.  At that time, it was nice to know that someone out there who experienced hurt and pain was being assisted by an adult - in this case - Torey.  Sometimes, no one ever helps children but themselves, and sometimes, they must wait until adulthood and/or a time when they are in a "safer" situation to do so.As an adult, I remembered this book and searched for it on Amazon, finding it, ordering it, and reading it immediately.  It caused many mixed emotions within me, including feelings of fear, abandonment, betrayal, hurt, pain, feeling unloved...  It made me feel very sad.  But, I also felt happy for the girl since Torey was helping her.Torey did the best she could while trying to maintain her professionalism and not get overly involved, though it was difficult for her not to.  For most teachers, it is easy and preferrable not to get too involved.  I know because I have been a teacher.  Administrators generally frown on teachers and staff becoming too involved or familiar with students, and sometimes, for good reason.I have read all of Torey's books since ONE CHILD, as well, and have enjoyed reading each and every one.  Torey is an angel, and I am glad that she has been able to help as many children as possible through her profession.
5 As a special education teacher, I have read all of Torey's books and this is my favorite of them all, having read One Child many times. I could relate well to Sheila as a child, and as a teacher I can now relate to Torey.  Reading this book has helped me with my own students. I am moved by Torey's love and the effect she had on Sheila. I also recommend Tiger's Child, the sequel to One Child. I hope Torey will write more books about her amazing students .
5 I really enjoyed this book, saddened by the details, but the story was told very well. I just wanted to hug her. I haven't read a book in a long time when I cryed so hard.
5 There comes a point in a person's life where they will fight for one child. Well that's if you work in any of the professions that deal with children. There is just one child who will grab you like no other, reach in, take your heart, and never give it back. This was Mrs. Hayden's one child. Or so it feels. At you can tell the little girl thought her teacher hung the moon.To be honest most people wanted the one thing that didn't happen, a fairy tale ending. Of course this is reality not fantasy so I'm glad she wrote the truth. This book really touched me. It touched me so much in fact I spread it around where I worked and watch it worked it's magic on my fellow employees. They really liked it and it's still making it's way around our worrk.
5 Adam HobbsOnce ChildTorey HaydenAvon Books1998354 pagesTeacher and literary genius Torey Hayden hits a high note with her captivating book, "One Child." I have been blessed with the opportunity to read this story and it truly is a masterpiece. The words set forth to paper in this story are more powerful than a Boeing jet and have the strength to move you on an emotional level.This is the story of young special education teacher Torey Hayden and her quest for higher knowledge to the handicapped and disturbed. She is given the task of teaching a class deemed impossible that is full of misfit kids with bizarre backgrounds of abuse, poverty, depression, and mental handicaps. She fights against the odds to reach the kids on a deeper level, when a seven year old girl with a disturbing past and animalistic behavior is placed in her class to await transfer to the state mental hospital. Torey uses everything within her power to help this girl and break her from submission.Torey Hayden has a style a writing that will not only give you mental pictures of the vast scenarios set forth in this story, but she will also give your mind a ride it won't expect. I'll be honest, when I first starting reading this book my expectations were very low, but once I got into it I couldn't set it down. Torey Hayden has great word choice and can describe any situation down to the detail and still keep the story going. Her fluent, in depth descriptions are beautifully written and kept me engaged through out the whole book.This story, along with its powerful words, has a strong, meaningful message that everyone should read. This story speaks of tolerance for those who are different because they are a direct result of their environment and it is not their fault they act the way they do. It also tells that you should accept peoples little quarks and disabilities  because it is what they want to be like and it is better to be different then to blend into a world that does not accept them anyways.
4 I am a first time reader of the author, Torey Hayden. I had never heard of her nor her books until I was reading another book and it mentioned one of her books. As I began looking, I saw the reviews for this book and was intrigued.The book is an autobiographical account of Torey Hayden's experience with a special education class of eight children that no one else wanted to teach. Then, a six year old girl that had severely burned a three year old child was placed in her class to await a state mental hospital placement.This book chronicles Ms. Hayden's frustrations and triumphs with her class, in particular this young girl, Shiela. I was impressed with the author's candid explanation of what happened. I did not get the impression that she was trying to show everyone what a good teacher she was.Rather, she was helping the reader feel the pains of her experience and the struggles she went through in trying to make a difference in the experience of a young child who had already suffered a lifetime of hurt. In the process, she demonstrates the power of perseverance and never giving up on people, even when they may do everything in their power to push others away.I gained further insight into the power of love and the importance of empathy in considering other's situations. Until we begin to understand what they've been through and see things as they do, we will never unlock the power to love even the most "unloveable" person.I give this four stars, as it did not reach the level of perfection warranted by a five star rating. The writing, while intriguing, is more frank than truly literary. In addition, there are a number of typos that inhibit reading a bit. I would recommend this book to most everyone who works with children in any way. It will open your eyes more to their experience and the need for patience, empathy, and caring.
3 Not too bad.Not to mention it gives some rough and ready examples of just how difficult, and beautiful, this profession is.After reading her book, you will get just a peak at why teachers should get paid more than they do.
4 It was a good read.What I find bizarre, is the optimism at the end of the book, that it looked like the child would probably be okay.  I don't know how anyone could think that for a minute.  Not nearly enough had changed for her.  Not nearly enough time had been spent with someone who cares about her.  I don't think that the months were for nothing, but I just don't see how anyone could even hope it would be "enough."
5 One of my favorite books of all time. If you've never read any of Torey Hayden's books, I'd recommend starting with either this one, or Ghost Girl. One Child really did impact my life; I will never forget it.
3 This book was a gift from a friend and truly the subject is outside my area of interest.  However, I read it in good faith and did enjoy it.  The book is simply written and is a very fast read.  I must admit that I was able to skim over some minor details and pick up the story without missing a beat a paragraph or two later.  I've no doubt that those missed lines were interesting - just not vital to the storyline and ...it was a story that really did not interst me at first.I was horrified by the abuse this poor little girl suffered but inspired that ANYONE would have the patience to deal with these troubled kids.  Honestly, after hearing what she did to land in that class, I'd have been afraid to be near her.  It is good to see that there are better people in the world than I.  I can not begin to describe the step by step process of teaching this little girl the meaning of "safe" and "love" and "friendship" - things that a child of six should simply take for granted.  It was also nice to see that the father stepped up to the plate in the end and tried to be a stand up kind of man.  I only wish there had been a final note from the author to tell me that everything turned out ok and the child is now grown and educated and happy.
5 WOOOOOOOOOOOOW!  I read it on the train to work, walking up the street, on my breaks, sneaking a few pages in during work and on the couch at home until I couldn't keep my eyes open.  When I wasn't reading this beautiful story, I was thinking about it.  When I was done, I reread the last chapter, and kept skimming through the book wishing there was more.  THEN I found out she wrote another one about Sheila!!!! I bought it today...I just finished One Child this afternoon!
5 I loved this book. It was recommended by my mother because I work in special education. I loved that Torey Hayden's story shows what the positive influence of an adult can do for a troubled child that many others would be turned off by.
4 I work with children at school and I found the book written my child psychologist Torey Hayden and interesting read.
5 This is Torey Hayden's best book.  I can't say anything more without feeling like I'm giving something away, but read it.  It's wonderful!
5 When I first started reading Torye Hayden's books, I was always interested in the foster care system and abused children. Hayden's books are wonderfully written, almost to the point where you feel like you are HER experiencing the situations.This book made me so sad to realize what is going on in our so-called perfect America.This little girl has been through hell and back and everyone, except Hayden, sat back and ignored it.I believe there is a special place in heaven for Hayden. She is the reason I hope to one day become a foster mother. She makes you believe that you can and will make all the difference in the life of a child who needs you. She's an inspiration...and this book is proof of that.
5 One Child is a great story of a neglected little girl placed in the "special" class. She is pretty much lost and out-of-control until one special teacher decides that she will make something out of her. After lots of hard work, they discover that she is actually a genius. One Child will touch your heart and is a must-read.
5 This story gave me tears of sadness and tears of joy. While it is heartbreaking to learn of all the abuse Sheila has endured, it isheartwarming to know that SOMEONE took the time and effort to encourage her and to reach out to her. This book is a wonderful testament to the power of love and the human spirit.
5 I Loved this book. Torey Hayden is one of the best authors that writes about her own experiences working with special needs or difficult children. This child in the book, Shiela, comes from a neglectful background. She doesn't speak. But Torey works her magic, as well as uses as much tlc and patience with her as she can. It is a great book, but it is sad because you read what this young child has to go through in her young life. Torey also has other books out there too that are about her expereices and learning journeys. There is a followup to this story about Sheila, it is called The Tiger's Child . Both are really good.
5 The reviews of Torey Hayden's books convinced me to want to read the series. My pursuit of the first book One Child found a Plot Synopsis and Study Guide. Disappointed until I found the actual book based on her true experience on Amazon and read it through in two sittings. Now see how other reviews are spot on and I will be reading through all the series! I have read through all the Cathy Glass books and was looking for something as engrossing and Torey Hayden fits the bill.
5 after reading this book i have deciced to be a special ed teacher. i espically want ton work with autistic kids. the autstic kids in this book touched me in a special way. anyway back to the man story with sheila it is very good. i have made a buch of pepole read this book.
3 I have absolutely no complaints with Mr. Gale's writing style; it's fast-paced, thrilling and introduces some very admirable heroes, together with a number of boo-worthy villains. A good cast for a military history novel and excellent historical research to back up the plot. I did feel the author should have introduced more chapters into the tale as a number of occasions the action would suddenly swing confusingly from one set of characters to another, in the same page, and with no warning.My main problem here though is that, deliberate or not, this book is a complete take-off of the Sharpe series that is set one hundred years later during the Napoleonic Wars. For Sharpe, we have Steel, Sgt. Harper/Sgt. Slaughter, Wellington/Marlborough and the list goes on. The principle villain and the despicable, arrogant, British officers seem also to have been picked up straight from the pages of the Bernard Cornwall books; indeed the "spy mission, search for incriminating documents" plot, also read remarkably like a previous Sharpe effort.This lack of originality didn't completely spoil my enjoyment, since the action is well presented and the story moves along very well. My most charitable comment however, would be that this book is a good effort to entertain those readers that do miss the finish of the Sharpe series. I will likely go along for the rest of the Steel adventures.
4 Greatly enjoyed all the skirmishes, seiges and the Battle of Blenheim.  Well researched and written. Fascinating period that I knew little about. Marlborough and his possible Jacobite connections added a level of interest and intrigue.  Always like to see novels like this with good maps and historical notes at the end. Very much in the vein of a Sharpe Novel. Only criticism would be the main characters super abilities - much like Sharpe.Look forward to reading more books by Iain Gale.
4 This is the first book in a series about Jack Steel, a lieutenant in the British Army in 1704 at the Battle of Blenheim. I enjoyed the rhythm of the writing. It was fast moving and kept one engaged. Succintly, it flowed. I was not very cognizant about this time in British military history. A lack on my part. The Duke of Marlborough is portrayed here in an interesting way. Now I know why Grenadiers are called that and how it all began. Great fast read!!!Highly recommended.
3 Yep, comparisons to Sharpe are inevitable.  Jack Steel and his trusty sergeant are Grenadiers in Queen Anne's army being led by the Duke of Marlborough into the Bavaria of 1704.  Cue much action, side missions and of course various bad guys.This does not flow as well as Cornwell's writing, and sticks a little too closely to the formula presented by the many Sharpe novels, but it's not bad and the series could grow on me.  Some interesting politics and an army of mixed components (this was before the invent of the 'British' army) led by a leader who could match the future Wellington for ability and tactical awareness.This books concludes with the battle of Blenheim and we will see Steel in future adventures, I shall certainly pick up some more as the series does have potential.
5 A thoroughly enjoyable fast paced read. Man of Honour introduces Lt. Jack Steel in an historically accurate novel set against the Battle of Blenheim just over 300 years ago. It is all there - political scheming; cowardice and villainy; the horror of war and the bonding of the warrior class; a beautiful heroine and the twists and turns of a well crafted tale of defeat and triumph.  Iain Gale has once again regaled us with a tale of the British Army at war without glossing over the horror of conflict while depicting its ultimate triumph.
5 As with the two previous books in this series, "Bones of the Hills" does not fail to deliver in impact in its sweeping scope of fast moving events and in its stark, raw brutality. Like one or two other reviewers have mentioned, I also found myself liking Genghis the man more and more throughout the series, who despite his brutal, gritty and uncompromising view on life is honest and uncomplicated with a strong code of honour where it really counts. In this, Mr Iggulden has delivered a persona of the historical Genghis which I find to be remarkably in keeping with the image I already had in mind. As pointed out in the book's historical notes, Genghis, for all of his incredible ruthlessness, was never personally sadistic by choice or nature. Greed as we know it was alien to his nature and, as the title of this review suggests, his deeds as well as his word was iron. In short, this is a man shaped by a lifetime of incredible adversity to face challenges most of us in the modern era can only have nightmares of, and what is more, he emerges not just as a ruthless conqueror but a man with a vision ahead of his time.in "Bones of the Hills" Genghis has subdued the Chin empire, his ancient foes and for the moment honour for old wrongs has been satisfied. But now his attention turns to the Moslem Khwarezem empire with whom his normally astute brother, Temuge, has tried to open trade negotiations. When the Mongol envoys are slain without good cause by a bumbling regional governor in one of the biggest political blunders in history, the stage is set for the Great Khan to exact a terrible revenge on the once great Arab empire. But despite his own personal thirst for conquest, Genghis continues with his personal woes. His sons have now reached manhood and Genghis is now feeling the pressure as he ages to think of a successor. His two general brothers, Khasar and Kachiun, are now too old themselves to be considered any more, and Genghis himself is adamant he wants the next Great Khan to be of his seed. However, he is still wary of his embittered eldest son, Jochi, whose paternity has long been under suspicion, and is bitterly disappointed in his one time favourite son, Chagatai, whose vengeful and spiteful nature becomes more apparent with the years. That only leaves Ogedai and Tolui, his third and fourth sons, both too young yet to have been tested in life and in battle...As usual in this series, the battle scenes are epic in their description and scope and I for one had my own inner movie playing in the recesses of my imagination as I read on. One of the most memorable episodes of the book concerns the Khwarezem Shah's eldest son and heir, Jelaudin, who takes up the epic fight against the Mongols when his father dies in squalid exile. In history as well as in fiction, Jelaudin was also an outstanding military figure, who won renown and respect especially from Genghis for his epic escape on horseback off a high cliff against crushing odds. For those who have read the previous books, the shady shaman, Kokchu, continues to worm his way through the royal family's favour - but as one already suspects, the increasingly powerful and arrogant medicine man finally goes a step too far (read to find out what happens next!)These books continue to entertain, inform and enthrall with each new chapter. The next in the series is "Empire of Silver". I for one do not want to miss it!
5 Just awesome. One of the gratest series ever! I just couldn't put it down. And the same goes for the rest of the books in the series!
5 I don't usually read this genre, but I have an interest in the Mongol nation. I didn't realise until writing this review, that it was part III in a trilogy which says a lot about an authors ability to make a book in a series stand alone. Having seen the film 'Mongol' though, I was up to date with the earlier parts of his life.  If you liked the film you will absolutely love this book. The author has done some very credible research to write the battle scenes so accurately and vividly, bringing you right into the battles. Not only that you will live in the book through the characters, characters which come to life in a way few authors seem to be able to do. It was a brutal era and life was cheap. Iggulden has reached into the past and recreated an era unparalleled in history, giving the modern person a look see into a world of savagery, clashing cultures, traditions and war. Not only is his writing first class, his ability to show - not tell finely tuned, I picked only one spelling mistake, so the editing was excellent too. It is so action packed, you will find yourself panting - looking for rest, but not able to put the book down long enough to find it. It is truly that good! I highly recommend this book, not only for its historical accuracy but its ability to put you right there as you read and never allow you out until its finished. Few books manage that so well.
5 This is the best in the series.  The first was also very good.  I stayed up all night reading this. This series is addictive.  If you like Conn Iggulden you simply have to read this book.  I am not sure how closely it relates to the "actual" history, but it is absolutely entertaining.  If you want a good read for your vacation this is it.  You don't necessarily have to read all three, but the first and the third are the best. I am not sure if it is a "guy thing" but the book seems to appeal more to gentleman then the ladies.  Have fun, this book is a guilty pleasure!
5 start at the first book in this series and you wont stop . The story has everything battles are well explained, Savage and bloody ,Love it
5 One of the dangers of sequels is the fact of unfulfilled expectations - how can a sequel be as interesting or compelling as the original? How can the author bring something new to the table without losing that which made the original interesting?In Bones of the Hills, the well-researched historical novel continues the story of Ghengis Kahn, a history not really well known in the West. Having overcome mythically-awful tests as a youth to rise to power, and having conquered the Chin in the first novel, in this sequal we see him turn west to consolidate and expand his growing empire.In addition to the blood-and-guts battles, the chilling brutality of the camp, and the intrigue of a wide number of well-drawn characters, we see in this book the development of his sons - and the obvious seeds for future dispute. This is a saga about turning a group of tribes into a true Empire, absorbing what they need and what they can from those they conquer.The book accomplishes what good historical fiction must do: it provides a sense of place and time, while also being a terrific read. It left me eager for the next in the series.
5 Bones of the Hills is the third novel in the Conqueror series and just as good as the previous 2 novels. Just as much a page turner as the others and doesn't disappoint. A highly recommended read for anyone that enjoys fictional history combined with a touch of realism will be highly satisfied with this book.
5 This is great writing. It is what historical fiction is all about and is why this is my favourite genre. I really wish that I could write like this.Conn Iggulden excels at bringing the characters and the events to life. It is fast and furious. It is captivating. It is heavily atmospheric. Well done Mr Iggulden; again!As Ghengis recalls his armies from Chin and other distant outposts so that his united Mongol forces can wage more terror towards the south and west, huge rivalries brew up and approach boiling point. These rivalries are at their hottest amongst his own family members, and become particularly intense as the Great Khan announces his successor.Having read the previous two books in the series, and you really must before you open this one, you will be expecting a high dosage of gruesome brutality. You will not be disappointed. In fact, I can confidently predict that your expectations will be exceeded. However, all of that brutality is in context and is absolutely necessary.This book will stir your emotions. Iggulden builds the characters up to such an extent that you will feel that you know all of them very well. You will have your favourites, and there will be those whom you will hate. You will feel that many of your new-found friends and acquaintances, and those characters from the previous episodes, are treated unfairly, and you will be awaiting the awful revenge.There is one particular character in this series whom you will probably already dislike and distrust if you have read thus far. Will he escape, or will he die a horrible death? You can probably guess which, but I won't spoil it by revealing his identity, and you will almost certainly know who I mean when you have read the book. I'll be surprised if you don't.I can't say much more without adding spoilers. You'll just have to read it, and I hope that you enjoy it as much as I did. It has been a long wait, for me, since I read Lords of the Bow, but it has been worth the wait.
4 ...once again Conn Iggulden incorporates incorrect notions into an otherwise estimable piece of historical fiction.  In his Emperor books, making Julius Caesar and Marcus Brutus friends of the same age --and Brutus's mother Servilia a whore rather than a powerful, politically adept aristocrat -- ruined the entire series for me; it was unreadable.  It was alternate history, not historical fiction.Iggulden is less egregious in playing loose and fast with documented history in the Genghis series, and I can't deny that he cooks up some excellent battle writing.  But one particular conceit bothered me on many, many pages in this book -- the idea that the Shah of Khwarezm and his followers were ARABS.  We know for a fact that this Shah was the son of a Turk military slave of the Seljuks, not Arab at all.  And the peoples who inhabited the Khwarezm Empire were Turks, Iranians, Kurds, Azeris, Afghans of various tribes, and other peoples who still inhabit this region.  While there may have been a very few Arabs in the mix (but Berbers? Not likely.) they were hardly predominant.  So why does Iggulden constantly refer to "Arab lands," "desert Arabs," "the Arab army," etc. etc.?  My guess -- he is suffering from post-9/11 shock and identifies all Muslims as Arabs, even when they aren't, just like the ignorant louts who believe that Iranians are Arabs.  But, no...the author seems aware that there are indeed other Muslim ethnicites...so WHY does he make this ruling family and their huge armies Arab?And Genghis Khan -- as depicted here -- is certainly no hero.  He's really just a bloodthirsty, mass-murdering terrorist.  But we knew that, didn't we?That said, this is still a very enjoyable read, and the series as a whole is vastly superior to his Roman books.
4 I listened to the story as an audiobook, narrated by Richard Ferrone, so my review is based on that version.I first read this book several years ago and liked it so much that I got the audiobook version for my husband to listen to during his commute.  Now I discovered that there are two more in the series out,Khan: Empire of Silver: A Novel (Conqueror)andConqueror: A Novel of Kublai Khan, so I decided to go back and listen to this third in the series to help remind me of everyone's names and the places Genghis was conquering.This book starts out with Genghis' army, his brothers, and his sons fighting against the Arab warriors. These Arab warriors were some of the toughest the Khan had ever faced and their numbers were overwhelming.  The Arab warriors were not easily defeated and it would take all of the Khan's armies to defeat him.This story is also the story of how Genghis' sons have grown into generals and are still working to impress their father.  The oldest son, Jochi, is not accepted as a true son because his mother was captured and raped around the time he was conceived.  Although Genghis doesn't openly say he doesn't believe Jochi is his son, it is clear by his attitude and actions toward Jochi that he isn't wholly accepted.  Genghis' second oldest son, Chagatai, believes that he will be chosen as heir over Jochi and goes out of his way to make Jochi's life miserable.Although some of the things in this book are works of fiction, Conn Iggledun sticks mostly to the Historical Fact to create this book.  Most of what we know about Genghis is based on second and third hand accounts anyway because there was no written record of the rise of Genghis.  If you enjoy historical fiction and want to learn more about Genghis Khan, this is the series for you!The Narration ReviewThis audiobook was narrated by Richard Ferrone and he does a great job narrating this story.  I think his voice is perfect for the whole historical fiction genre, but especially for these stories of Genghis.
5 Well written and a great story. Couldn't put it down. Loved the whole history lesson as well. Very much entertaining
1 I bought a new tablet with a large screen, Samsung 12.2 note pro. I would like to buy some art books digitally. This was an experiment to see if it would work.  The book itself is okay as far as instruction, but not especially a good one.  It is the illustrations were the real problem is. . They are the size of postage stamp. I can enlarge the print but not the illustrations. That is a huge flaw.  Artist are visual people and learners.  I want to be able to see the painting examples talked about in the text.  Let the buyer beware. I thought it was a waste of money.  The hard copy might be a better deal.
5 For what this little gem of a book has set out to do it had succeeded.  It is a wonderful inspiration and sometimes thinking small is needed to get us going.  I highly recommend it
3 Its a nice start for those that want to use aquarelles. It gives you all the basics, very briefly (sometimes too briefly) but precisely.
3 Read this book and it seems to cover much of the basics. I rated it 3 stars because it had some photos of watercolor paintings. Yet, the book lacks information for the real novice.
2 I gave this book 2 stars because of the pictures in the book. If your eyes are 20/20 good for you.  You can probably read the book, however if you wear bifocals don't buy this book.  The size of the book is about 3" by maybe a bit over 4 1/2".  Hazel gives good tips on mixing oolors etc.There are a lot of nice pictures to look at if you can see them.  This is not the type of book you can lay out on your work table and refer to, it is way too small and anoying.If the book is published in a normal size work book it would be worth buying, however it is very small and I would not recommend to anyone for purchase.
3 I usually buy the &#34;real book&#34; but I purchased the ebook this time because the physical book is tiny.  The kindle version allows you to zoom in on the paintings and see it on a decent sized IPad screen.As far as the content itself I thought it was just okay.
4 I found it very helpfullearned muchenjoyed ituse itopens doors for fun and gifts that will be precious keepers
5 This little book is packed with wonderful tips and exercises...............I'm sure you will love it!  The book is small enough to go with you anywhere
5 This little book is a great way to understand how to paint simple objects including flowers, which I particularly like.  Hazel Soan's direct method of painting is of great interest to me.  This volume covers alot of ground in introducing the subject.  Small enough to fit in your pocket or painting supplies, it can give you a swift idea on how to paint any number of subjects.
5 A great addition to my library.  A book I will repeatedly use and refer to --- at a great price.  Thank you Amazon.
5 This book provide an insight on how articulated  brush stroke can convey a picture, useful text to refer to to enjoy the essence do quick painting.
5 I was surprised by vast of information and easy to fallow instructions, I'm sure anyone  can do it if give it a try.Highly recommending for new and advanced watercolorists.
4 I wish some of the illustrations were larger; but aside from that, this book is a winner.  Lots of clearly stated useful tips on watercolor technique.  Useful examples for practice sessions are included and presented in a way that inspires a beginner to enjoy this great past time.
5 Terrific idea.  Gives you something to practice and wonderful for newbies to w/c.  Can be used  as homework assignment for the young.  Idea is to make it fun.
5 very useful for travel, because of small size and short exercises with inspiration.but don't expect to complete each painting in ten minutes, despite the title!
5 This is a tiny, pocket sized reference book, approximately, 3.5&#34; x 4.5&#34;. The instructions are sound, and useful. I plan to add this reference book to my college students' required reading list for a drawing rendering course. We conduct a lot of field journalling trips, and I think the size would be ideal to pack with their kits.
5 People who know anything about the mind of J.R.R. Tolkien know that he disliked allegory. That makes &quot;Smith of Wootton Major&quot; a bit of an oddity among his writings, but not an unwelcome one. It's a sweetly fantastical little fable that drips over with Tolkien's love of real, deep fairy tales.It takes place in a little town &quot;not very long ago for those with long memories, not very far away fro those with long legs.&quot; The Master Cook of that village takes a vacation, and returns with an apprentice in tow. But something odd happens at the Feast of the Cake -- the cook stirs in a &quot;fay-star&quot; with little trinkets in the cake, and it's accidently swallowed by a boy there.The boy (later called Smith) is changed by the fay-star, which sparkles on his forehead. When he grows up Smith ventures into Faery itself, and even meets the Faery Queen herself. The message she gives him is for her mysterious, missing husband, the King -- who turns out to be the last person anybody in Wootton Major would have expected.&quot;Smith&quot; is a fairy tale in the best sense. Don't expect cackling witches or convenient loopholes in spells here; Tolkien was too skilled for that. Instead we have majestic fey and sparkling magic, woven with a tidy medieval town. (Not to mention the custom of naming people after their jobs -- Smith, a smith, capisce?) Never once does it become precious or cutesy.It's among Tolkien's simpler writings. In fact, it's so simple that it barely has a plot -- the vanishing King is the closest thing it has. But Tolkien's writing sparkles with little details of the fey, with only a minimum of description. His glimpses of Faerieland are too brief, but they're also reminiscent of a few passages from &quot;Lord of the Rings.&quot;A sweet, fantastical little story, this is one of Tolkien's lesser-known but still deserving stories. Charmingly symbolic.
5 This new extended edition, edited by the estimable Verlyn Flieger, is a must-have for students and admirers of Tolkien. Of course, most of you will already have Smith of Wootton Major on your bookshelves, either in its own volume or in one of the several collections in which it has been reprinted -- so why get another copy?Because Verlyn Flieger has included several additional (and essential) pieces to the Smith puzzle that have never been available before. These include: Flieger's introduction and afterword on Smith; Tolkien's Note to Clyde Kilby on the Genesis of Smith; his draft preface to a proposed new edition of George MacDonald's The Golden Key, from which kindling the story of Smith was struck -- though the preface was abandoned and the edition of The Golden Key never published; a long essay by Tolkien on the internals of Smith; a timetable and cast of characters with never-before-published details; and most interestingly, the entire draft of Smith, in both typescript and manuscript, reproduced in facsimile.This is invaluable material for anybody interested in the development and meaning of Smith of Wootton Major. Prior to this edition, Verlyn Flieger quoted from some of these unpublished pieces in her 1997 volume A Question of Time: J.R.R. Tolkien's Road to Farie, and even Tom Shippey (in The Road to Middle-earth) acknowledged the advantage she had in having seen this material. Now, it's available to all of us.My one complaint about the book is that it is poorly produced (by HarperCollins, Tolkien's British publisher). The production quality -- and sadly, this is typical of British-made books of the past several decades -- is rather low. The spine is glued, rather than sewn, and it creaks and cracks, threatening to break any time the book is opened. The paper is like stiff newsprint and has a tendency to smudge. Terrible. But unfortunately, this volume has not been printed in the U.S., and the content is important enough to overcome the lackluster production quality.
5 JRR Tolkien's late work Smith of Wootton Major has been published in a variety of formats.  The version I am reviewing here is the Extended Version edited by Verlyn Flieger.  It is preferable to all other versions, and it is unfortunate that Tolkien's US publishers have not made it widely available here.Smith was first published in 1967.  It is a charming story, set outside of Middle earth, in a place and time that still has links to Faery.  Certain privileged individuals, such as Smith, are able to travel in Faery and learn from its wise inhabitants.  The story is usually taken to be Tolkien's admission that his life was coming to its end and that his gifts must be passed on.The Extended Version publishes Tolkien's original plans and drafts for the story, including a fascinating chronology that recalls the intricate Tale of Years in the Appendices to The Lord of the Rings.  Part of the charm of Tolkien's works is the extensive and very apparent preparation he put into his tales.  Nothing was ever produced without a long pre-history of writings and re-writings that often changed the story many times before it reached its final form. Flieger's editorial comments add much to our understanding and appreciation of this work as well.Everything Tolkien wrote has an air of Faery at its best.  This short work, which can be read in an hour or so, has some of the deepest and most inspiring links to that realm.  It is the fay star which can be passed on but never given up, immeasurably enriching those who read it in the right spirit.
5 In the little town of Wootton Major, they have a wonderful tradition where a special cake is baked every twenty four years, and eaten by twenty four good children. But, when a magical Faery star is slipped into this year&#8217;s cake, it is eaten by the local smith&#8217;s son. And so the life of the younger smith is changed beyond anyone&#8217;s imagination &#8211; he is marked by beauty of face and voice, and (unbeknownst to anyone) he can even visit the land of Faery whenever he likes. It is a life of magic and giving.I have long been familiar with J.R.R. Tolkein&#8217;s famous books &#8211; The Hobbit and The Lord Of The Rings &#8211; but, this cute little book shows that just about everything that he put his hand to he did beautifully! This is a most wonderful little book, one that is sure to charm anyone who believes in beauty and wonder...and maybe hopes just a little that that land of Faery is a real place after all!
5 Smith of Wootton Major, written between 1964 and 1966* and published in 1967, is a meditation on the gift of fantasy. It originally was to be a very short story to be included to a preface of George MacDonald's famous faerie story The Golden Key. The story soon began a life of its own, and though altogether brief gives an insightful view into Tolkien's life.The story is about Smith, who is a normal boy of all accounts. In his village are great feasts, and the Feast of Twenty Four is held. A star, little more than thought a Trinket by the Master Cook, is placed within tie cake, and he eats it unknowing. Then beauty comes upon him, and after he grows up begins to wonder in Faery. This is much the life of Tolkien. Born in South Africa in 1892, he was a little British boy that came to live in England. He became immersed in two things: mythology and language. Soon, so in love with language, he began inventing his own. In the end, he wished to have people speak his languages, to have a history behind it: thus arose Middle-earth. Then, as time went on, just as Smith, Tolkien explored the fantastic worlds, and was accustomed to strange lands.In the story it is stated he spoke little of it to anyone OUTSIDE of his family. This is also true of Tolkien. Although his (deeply loved) wife was not real involved in his writing, he shared his stories with his family, and it is not to far to say that had it not been for his four children The Lord of the Rings would never have been written. (To understand this statement, one must first realise who The Hobbit was written for. It was written for his children. This, along with Farmer Giles, Roverandom (newly published), the Father Christmas Letters, and Mr. Bliss, his children's picture book personally illustarted by him. Unwin, his publisher wanted a sequel to The Hobbit, so he began The Lord of the Rings, a much less serious work in the beginning than at last evolved too. So without these we would not have gotten his adult masterpiece).Then old age approached. Although his mind was not dimmed, time had worked its decay on his body, and much of his strength was sapped. He realised that he was a mortal, and even though he had had a passport to Faery, it did not grant him eternal physical life. Tolkien was sad about this, and wished to finish The Silmarillion. But life is life, and Tolkien knew his life was drawing to an end. Just like his beautiful little people who also knew morality, the hobbits, he died in 1973, 2 September, just shy of dying ten years after his friend C. S. Lewis (who died the same day as Auldous Huxley and JFK). Tolkien, just as Frodo and Bilbo, went on the great ships into Paradise, Heaven. He took sick with a gastric ulcer, and developed a chest infection, dying.Tolkien was of melancholy temperament, and they are notorious for being prone to depression. Tolkien was of the great artistic class, and he knew depression well. It was depression that this story was borne of. In the very last letter in LETTERS OF J. R. R. TOLKIEN, he tells his daughter as something of a P. S. "It is stuffy, sticky, and rainy at present - but forecasts are more. favourable". As far as my knowledge goes, that is the last thing he wrote, being four days before his death. There is much hope in that statement, even though Tolkien had no way of knowing how much relevance that to that moment in his life.This is the closest thing of autobiography he has written. This, along with his marvelous short story Leaf by Niggle, are essential of you want to read and understand this Godly man's life. Tree and Leaf, a small book containing the short story aforementioned and his classic essay On Faerie Stories, along with this, will enlighten you greatly on his views of Faerie. These three are essential to understand this man. Leaf By Niggle is him venting his frustration, and then him expressing great hope for his work. It also reflects his Catholicism, as Niggle goes thru purgatory.*This is deduced from LETTERS OF J. R. R. TOLKIEN. In letter 262, Tolkien accepts the invitation to write a preface to The Golden Key, the short story by MacDonald. It was here, in that abandoned preface, that he began Smith, of what was to be a very short story. It had a life of its own, and grew to present length. In letter 270, dated 20 May 1965, Tolkien is talking to Rayner Unwin, his publisher (and as a child reviewed THE HOBBIT for publication, who received, if my memory serves me correctly, ten shillings for reading and writing a little report over it for his father Stanley.) The typescript of this story had been submitted for publication..-----------Notes on the Extended Edition, edited by Verlyn FliegerThe extended edition (which is the definitive version), features a good deal of extra material.There is brief one page forward by Flieger, where Flieger in accordance to Tolkien's clear wishes as demonstrated in the abandoned Golden Key preface states "Reader, meet SMITH OF WOOTTON MAJOR".It includes an Afterword by Tolklien scholar Verlyn Fledger where she examines the SMITH in relation to Tolkien's other short fiction (ROVERANDOM, MR. BLISS, FARMER GILES OF HAM, and LEAF BY NIGGLE).This is the newly published material by Tolkien himself exclusive to the extended edition"Genesis of the Story".  A note to Clyde S. Kilby (author of the criminally underated minimalist book TOLKIEN AND THE SILMARILION) where Tolkien discus his dislike of George MacDonald and how SMITH is his answer to THE GOLDEN KEY and serves as an anti-George MacDonald tract."Tolkien's Draft Introduction to The Golden Key": by far one of the most interesting segments in the entire book, as SMITH OF WOOTTON MAJOR famously began life as a preface to MacDonald's fairy tale THE GOLDEN KEY but was never completed.  Tolkien examines fairy tales and then begins a short story in the preface itself, where the work breaks off, forever incomplete and unfinished (as a preface anyway)."The Great Cake Time Scheme and Characters": originally hte work began as "The Great Cake" and this is just a brief inventory of characters.  The characters sheet is about a page and a half. Tolkien, being Tolkien, then gives a chronology by year (think the Tale of Years in LOTR) of the events in the story.The fourth item is "Suggestions for the ending of the story" where he debates on how to end his new fiction."Smith of Wootton Major" is easily the most important piece in the book with the exception of the main work itself.  This piece (whose title does not distinguish itself from the main story) is an essay Tolkien wrote about what he meant (and did not mean) by the work and how this relates to his ideas of Faery.The next piece is "[Hybrid draft and transcription of `The Great Cake']" which is a manuscript/typescript hybrid of the original draft of the story.  This has a facsimile of Tolkien's manuscript and type script on the left side and the printed text [transcript] on the right side.The last piece is "Lake of Tears drafts and transcriptions" which are draft sections of SMITH...-----This review was written April 12, 2000, just a few months shy of twelve years ago. (That does not include the notes and information about the extra content in the extended edition, which was written December 14, 2011).  I left the review unreleased as it started out as a joint review of the FARMER GILES/SMITH OF WOOTTON MAJOR combo volume but soon became solely focused on SMITH.  I did release this on the Amazon.co.uk site back in 2001, as it hasn't lived a permanently isolated life on my hard drive like some of my other unreleased/unfinished Amazon reviews have done, living a cloistered existence.
5 If you like Tolkien then you'll enjoy this book as well. Some of his best stuff are his short stories.
5 A visit to Faery. Beware. It may touch your soul.While Tolkiens' dislike for allegory is well known, this compact tale takes the reader perelously close.Best read with the heart of a child.
5 This short, lovely, late tale by Tolkien is not only a fine fairy tale,  but a poetic meditation on the craft and Art of the fantasy writer - the  Myth Maker. Enjoyable simply as a story for readers of any age, it offers  quiet and rich rewards to those who wish to read more deeply. If possible,  look for the earlier edition with the original Pauline Baynes  illustrations. A reminder that true fantasy ultimately deals with the  Mysteries ...
3 This is the third int he series. I liked the first two better, but this one is intertaining. The breakdown of the New Race was kinda tiring and unbelievable.I got weary of the steady stream of weird monsters and things that came out of the labs of Victor Helios' Hands of Mercy.Jocko, the mutant, is very much like dobie from Harry potter.. but i like him anyway.A good but kinda dissapointing book.
1 Sadly this final showdown, in the concluding volume of Dean Koontz's Frankenstein, doesn't deliver the climax and denouement that addicted readers were impatiently waiting years for.  The many monsters that Victor Helios has created are starting to malfunction, performing cannibalistic acts on themselves, as well as attacking and killing innocents.  Helios pretends it is a minor thing, capturing those that are malfunctioning and dumping them in a specific place where all his other rejected freaks are; little does he know there is an uprising developing with these rejects, as they come up with an ultimate plan to capture and kill their master.  Meanwhile, Deucalion is working his way through Helios's creatures, killing and shutting them down one by one in an attempt to get closer to his creator.  And the detectives who are on the case are doing their best to stay live, being greatly outmatched against these monsters.  It all comes down to a final scene that I won't reveal for the readers, but will ultimately leave everyone feeling dissatisfied and unrequited.Originally written on November 23rd, 2009 Alex C. Telander.For over 500 book reviews and exclusive author interviews, go to [...]
3 Considering how long it took for this trilogy to be completed, it was a disappointing way to end the wait.  It was very, very, very anticlimatic, with zero tension at all in the end.  By the time this novel ends, you're surprised Victor could even ties his own shoes together much less create a race of superbeings.  The character gets torn down so much by his creatures failings, that you didn't even need the Decelion or the 2 detectives by the time this novel winds down... in fact, all they do in the end is just sorta stand around and witness Victor get done in by his creations.Lame.This is the last time I pay money for a Dean Koontz book.  Just a very very sloppy end to what had been a great series.  Guess he just wanted to cash the pay check.
3 I titled this "Better than most recent Koontz books". On the surface that's not saying a lot because I have been very disappointed in his recent novels.  I felt the last two in fact were a waste of my reading time and I might have abandoned Koontz totally except that I'd already read the first two books in this series and, like most readers, I wanted to finally see it through to the end.  On a positive note, I thought the writing was more reminscent of his older, more enjoyable books.  It kept my interest throughout and his descriptions of some of Victor's creations as they morphed were riveting.  Why only 3 stars?  I just don't get why this took three years to come out.  If he truly wanted to revise it based on Hurricane Katrina then what happened?  I expected him to weave a supernatural component into the natural disaster and somehow tie it into the story line and yet I can find no obvious influence from the hurricane in this story.  I agree with some other reviewers who stated it seemed like he just didn't want to write this book but he had to so eventually he got around to it.  Again, it's an enjoyable read and I hope from here he elevates his new novels to a higher plane.  My gut feel is that Koontz has gotten complacent - it's too easy to give us Odd Thomas and secret government organizations and superhero dogs again and again and again. I still like to believe he can do better.
5 Loved this book this progressive story kept me wanting more.  With each book the story just got better and better.
4 Okay, I picked up this series on Book 3 and feel the need to read Books 1 & 2 to see what I missed. Book 3's interesting ending lead me to purchase Book 4. I found Book 4 quite lame, but that's another review. :) As far as Book 3 goes, it hooked me onto the series. He made the killings by the replicants seem almost humorous. I don't frankly get all of the hate for this book. It's simple, humorous, horrific and it has an ending that most of the reviewers appear to have missed.Let's look at the ending since a lot of you have focused on it in such a negative way. Deucalion realizing that Victor intends to go to the farm, sets up a trap for him with some of his discarded replicants and a strange beast at the junkyard that's right before the barn. Helios/Frankenstein goes there and finally meets his ending there, while also releasing the signal that kills all of the replicants...which somehow do not kill Erika 5 and Jocko. Jocko wouldn't have been killed by the signal anyways since he doesn't contain the evil programming that Victor has entered into the minds of all of the replicants - save for the Erika's. Erika wasn't killed due to what I can only call circumstance. Being in the suv has nothing to do with it. It was her programming that was erroneous. How else could she alive otherwise? Nothing else really makes sense. I have to wonder if the people who don't understand or like the ending actually read it or merely skimmed it. And did no one really figure out what was in that gelatinous red tank? If not, shame on you! Victor's ego and vanity would never allow him to truly "die".
1 I say that, because like the character in this novel, he's losing his grip and doesn't even seem to realize it.I first read Koontz' fiction back in college, and while I wasn't blown away, I really enjoyed it.  A lot of his stuff is a little to similar, and some of his themes he's always had a tendency to beat to death, but still, his books were entertaining.  Several of his novels were absolutely great books with which to while away an evening.  I can still reread those stories with pleasure from time to time.  But something's happened in recent years.  Maybe that god-awful toupee he wears nowadays is interfering with the blood circulating to his brain, but his recent novels have simply left me cold.  I picked up the first book in this series because I needed a book to read on a long flight and there was nothing else I could find on short notice that looked interesting.  I saw that it was the first of a series, but I decided to hold off purchasing the two others until I had a chance to see if this was any better than most of his recent work.  Then I actually read the book and I thought it was great.  I eagerly bought books two and three after reading the first.  The old Koontz was back, or so it seemed.  I now think it more likely that the book was rescued from mediocrity by Kevin J. Anderson, and Koontz' decision to eschew another collaboration is part of the reason this book is so dismal.In Book One, Koontz and Anderson created some really interesting characters, and plunked them down in the center of a really good plot, wherein Frankenstein/Helios, who has managed to prolong his own life with the same science he has used to create artificial humans, intends to create a new and improved race with which to replace humanity.  Deucalion (the original Frankenstein's monster) was very interesting, as was Victor Frankenstein (AKA Helios) himself.  Erika Four, Victor's created wife was interesting also, as was her journey toward real humanity.  There were missed notes too, even in that book, I have to say.  The detectives Carson O'Connor and Michael Maddison were pretty much drawn straight from the Dean Koontz stock character repertoire, and there wasn't much new or interesting about them, at least to me, but they were okay.  The serial killer, Roy Pribeaux, was REALLY a Dean Koontz stock character, and seemed to serve very little purpose in the story.  But overall, it was a great book.Book two wasn't nearly as good, but was still entertaining, though the autistic "new human" Randall Six was poorly drawn, I thought, and like Pribeaux in the first book, seemed to serve little purpose in the story.But the third book, frankly, is really a stinker, and makes me think I will most likely never pick up a new Koontz novel again.  It's that bad.  EVERYTHING descends into absurdity.  EVERYTHING is crudely overdone.  EVERYTHING becomes implausible.  Even the characters, who had previously been interesting, became dull and two-dimensional.  Victor became an absolute parody of a mad, evil genius trying to destroy the world.  All that was missing was a caricature version of James Bond that he could dramatically reveal his master plan to, seconds before being killed.  In every way, Koontz stretches things too far.  It would have been great if Victor had been made simply arrogant and controlling, but Koontz had to make him unbelievably, cartoonishly megalomaniacal, to the point where he actually has to restrain himself from screaming hysterically at those who simply call things by names he doesn't like.  Rather than wanting simply to replace humanity populate the world with a superior human, he must be shown to want to build the "perfect" ordered, regimented, machine-like, efficient society, right down to the very tiniest detail.  Rather than being merely autocratic and tyrannical, he has to be made into a man who would stamp out every last vestige of individuality and freedom, with controls so thorough and rigid and infallible that Big Brother could only have wished for them in his wildest dreams.  Rather than receive backing from shady and amoral sources, he has to be made financial beneficiary of ALL of the 20th century's worst monsters, each in turn: Hitler, Stalin, and Mao.  Rather than being a domineering and abusive husband who possesses his wives, but is incapable of actual love, he has to be shown as an ogre so diabolical that he will kill a wife for even a single instance of willful impertinence.  Rather than being a man who simply deals efficiently with any adversaries, having them dispassionately disposed of if need be, he is shown as being someone so spiteful and motivated by rage and petty animosity that he has them kidnapped and brought to him so he can torture them to death personally for merely daring to oppose even his most trivial desires (e.g. renovating and adding on to his historic mansion).And Victor isn't the only beneficiary of this over the top treatment.  The new human he is creating overact just as egregiously.  Rather than merely envying the Old Race (as they call them) for having the freedom of action and depth of feeling that their maker has denied them, and rather than being just more cold-blooded and cruel as a result, Koontz makes them absolutely savage and demonic in their rage and hatred at real humans, so that EVERY LAST ONE OF THEM wants, literally above all other desires, to kill and rend and tear humans with his or her bare hands.  They all look forward to the day they can finally strike out at real humans and replace them more intensely than the most devout Evangelical Christian looks forward to The Rapture.  Philip K. Dick handled this same issue immeasurably better in "Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep," where his androids simultaneously envied, feared, and looked down on the humans to whom they were physically superior, but compared to whom they were emotionally stunted.  Koontz' new humans also end up behaving cartoonishly.  For example, two replicants, who have replaced the New Orleans district attorney and his wife, talk calmly with each other, calmly decide to go kill their neighbors for no apparent reason, all the while saying things like:Replicant wife: "I hate her so much."Replicant husband: "I hate her too. I hate him.  I hate them all.  Do something really amazing to her."And later, after a few senseless, very gory murders...Replicant wife: "I need to be naked when I kill the next ones.  It feels right."Replicant husband: "Does it feel right just for the next house, or is it maybe one of your personal core values?"Replicant wife: "I don't know.  Maybe it's a PCV.  We'll have to wait and see."You've GOT to be kidding me!  What has Koontz been smoking lately?  And it's not just the over-the-top, ridiculously cartoonish (I can't think of a word that fits this better) violence and dialogue.  It's the plot holes you could march the 82nd Airborne Division through.  Take the two homicidal replicants I just mentioned, for example.  They had replaced the real district attorney and his wife just days earlier, and now they are coming unhinged so completely, and so publicly that they go on the above mentioned, multi-house murder spree, and end up chasing a dog, while naked, through the streets of New Orleans, chanting "Dog, dog, dog..." and "Kill, kill, kill..." all the while.  Another one, who replaced a pastor, breaks down and begins losing his mind, as well as his motor functions within an equally short time.  Numerous others exhibit homicidal tendencies.  Some literally go insane and start chewing off their fingers or smashing their faces into a hot stove, etc.  A couple of other undergo spectacular and dangerous physical transformations as well.  Now think about this for just a few seconds.  Victor Frankenstein has supposedly been making artificial humans for over TWO HUNDRED YEARS by this time!  And he's been doing it so successfully that in two full centuries no one has ever managed to discover what he's doing.  The only time word really got out was with his first creation, who became a local legend that inspired Mary Shelley to write her famous novel, and at no time since has he ever been close to discovery by the rest of humanity.  Now how could he have ever integrated his creations so seamlessly into human society for so very long if they were this unstable?  And it's awfully convenient that this mass breakdown of his creations should occur just as he's ratcheting up his plans and is ready to begin mass production of his new humans.  Frankly, the story would have worked much better, and the danger been much more menacing, if Victor's creations were successful and stable and blending into society, and stood a real chance of taking over key positions, awaiting the day when they could strike decisively at an unsuspecting and complacent humanity.  As it is, they look far too likely to self-destruct before they can get very far, so why worry?Another plot hole is the supposed despair with which all these "soulless" manufactured humans view the world.  ALL of them, every last one, wants to die.  You see, they have been genetically engineered to be incapable of believing in a higher power, so of course, life has no meaning, and there's no point to existence, right?  So what if they create the perfect society?  If the universe is just a big, unfeeling machine itself, and there's no soul, and no afterlife, and no higher power to enforce morality and imbue the cosmos with some great metaphysical purpose, who'd want to live anyway, right?  And so it is that all of these new humans are secretly living totally empty lives of despair and anguish, and every last one of them wants to end it, but can't, because their maker has encoded a proscription against suicide into their DNA.  I am aware that many people of various religions seem to have this view of atheism/agnosticism, but it really astounds me that a best-selling novelist, of all people, especially a writer of fantastic and supernatural thrillers, should be so utterly lacking in imagination that he truly cannot conceive that there are GENUINELY people out there who have no belief whatever in a higher power or an afterlife or a supreme being, and yet still find life fulfilling and meaningful and enjoyable.  Not believing in a higher power simply does not inevitably lead to this outlook on life, and even people who do not share this outlook themselves, ought not assume that other people must secretly see the world the way they do.  Consequently, I have a hard time accepting this as the motivation for the new humans' ultimate breakdown, which is how Koontz has it.Anyway, suffice it to say that never has a well begun tale been brought to a sorrier conclusion.
1 In Songs of the Dying Earth, Dean Koontz writes, "During the first five years that I wrote for a living, I produced mostly science fiction. I was not good at it." It seems that with this book, dead and alive, Dean Koontz returns home.Almost every plot thread from previous books, and new plot threads introduced here, are pointless.Let us look at Werner. This advanced human has undergone complete change in it's system. It does various things and meets an end not at the hands of any of the heroes, but in a method best left for the lowest of the low, an off stage death.Let us look at Chamelon, a newly introduced killing machine. Much is made of it's ability to kill and its ability to orgasm during killing. It's killed by a midget.Let us look at the midget in question. Introduced initially as a potentially murderous creature, it turns out to be a joke.What of the monster introduced at the end of the previous book? Here and gone.Might there be some final confrontation between the creature and its creator? None that comes to any action. Its a talking nagging slow death.This book could have been written in about one third of the pages and had essentially the exact same story.Its a damn shame that some of the work of the previous novels is ruined by this child like telling where essentially everyone has a happy ending and the author sets it up for a potential sequel where more nothing can happen.
2 The first two novels had built me up for an astonishimg climax, I'd even re-read the first two while waiting for shipment of the third, what a let down.Katrina was little more than a footnote, where it could have been used as a tool to create a tremendous and destructive ending.The descriptive prose, I found to be ponderous, even juvenile, in many cases... Deaucalion is described as "Like Darth Vader on an all steroid diet..." WTH? The troll is capable of making facial expressions that "Could cause an attacking pack of wolves to go into cardiac arrest."Reads like the work of a 12 yr old...Can't understand, when he had literally yrs to tighten-up the story and it reads like drivel.I finished the book in two days. Afterwards, I felt like I'd been kicked in the groin and mugged for $5.99.Too bad.
4 not the ending i was expecting...seemed rushed and maybe it was considering it was 3 years late...still glad to have some closure
1 After enjoying the first Koontz Frankenstein then finding the second a bit of a trudge, I was hoping for something worth my time, energy and money. This book isn't it.  Dean Koontz has written some marvelous books which, for me, culminated in VELOCITY, an absolute triumph of a book.  Since then, even counting ODD THOMAS, his writing's really gone downhill and this is only the latest example.  The book was plodding, bloated, pedantic, and florid, and even listening to this as an audiobook doesn't improve it.  In fact, Dean Koontz would be well-served to actually LISTEN to his own sentences so he could hear how his dialogue is so stilted, so trite, and the descriptions nothing but a jumble of disparate metaphors.  I can't figure out, for the life of me, what he was thinking unless he was just SO SICK of the whole enterprise, he wanted a quick out and a quick buck.  This is not the Dean Koontz that held me, spellbound, for hours in years past.  Every new book of his I keep swearing will be my last, and I think I've finally reached the point where I gotta say: Save your money.  Go to the library.  Better yet, pick up the latest Stephen King.10/15/09: Just learned through PW that Bantam's signed Koontz to do three MORE Frankenstein books, the first picking up where this clunker leaves off but in a new setting with a new villain.  What's head-shaking about all this?  Doesn't anyone at Bantam read these reviews or care about what we think?  There are many readers who feel that Koontz is not on his game and hasn't been for the last several books.  I'm not sure how Bantam--or Koontz--thinks we need another series, but I do know that I will not be spending my money on it.  I'll wait for the library, thanks.  Taxes, I can't do anything about.  Think about the money being wasted on yet more dead trees and drivel.
5 Finally, the next Frankenstein book! I have 2 pages to go. I love Dean Koontz! Dean is just about the BEST author ever. This book has a couple of very lovable characters in it, Jocko for one. Dean has been putting more laughter in his books and boy, does it work! This is a Must Read for sure!
1 What a huge disappointment.  The first two were so good, but this is just the story of a bimbo, an overactive troll thingie and a blob.  Really bad.Maybe if we all get together and ask nicely we can get Koontz to rewrite the third installment?  Some one could wake up and it could all be a stupid dream...they do it on soap opera's all the time!  C'mon...why not?...really, it would be so much better.....
5 Dean Koontz is my all-time favorite author. I just discovered him this year (January 2009) and I'm SO glad I did! After reading about 20 of Koontz' books, I read Frankenstein 1 & 2. I avoided the Frankenstein books because I presumed the story would be about a tall green monster with bolts in his neck, walking stiffly around the city, chasing people as he muttered "FIRE!" and "ARGH!".When I finally was convinced from other DK fans that the books were a completely different story and that I should give them a chance, I was rewarded w/ some of the best plotting and characterization that I've ever read!Deucalion is a very well-developed and endearing character. The relationship between partners Madison and O'Connor feels real and is chock'full of wit, cleverness & more (I won't spoil anything for any non-readers).The "villains" and "monsters" in this last book are amazing and very entertaining. Koontz forces the reader to continually wonder "how in the WORLD are they gonna get out of it this time??".This novel was well worth the wait. I love how the series ended & will come back again & again to revisit the characters!My only complaint is that there won't be a 4th book to follow. =)BRAVO Koontz!Here's what I've read by Koontz so far & how I rank them from most to least favorite:1-Odd Thomas2-Frankenstein 1 (a very very close second!)3-Frankenstein 2 (a very very close third!)4-Frankenstein 3 (a very very close fourth!)5-Watchers (a very very close fifth!)6-From The Corner Of His Eye7-Shadowfires8-The Bad Place9-Life Expectancy10-Lightning11-Hideaway12-Strangers13-Velocity14-Brother Odd15-By The Light Of The Moon16-Darkfall17-The Key To Midnight18-Fear Nothing19-Odd Hours20-Forever Odd21-Intensity22-The Taking
1 I wish that I had read the reviews before I plunked down my $10.  The first book was OK, the second book made me start wondering about where Koontz could possibly go with the third book, and the third book definitely showed that Koontz isn't my kind of author.  A good author doesn't need to start a book with ten pages of acclaim from book reviewers.If you thought that there would be horror, action and suspense in this (oh I hope so) final book in the (hopefully) trilogy, then you'll definitely be disappointed. Deucalion and the two detectives really don't see much action.  What little action there is centers around a couple of beserk replicants making tatters of a few neighbors.  As in the second book, Koontz uses magical quantum physics to move Deucalion around, with no effort towards either action or suspense.  Fact is, there is more time devoted to Deucalion's nightmares.The story really wasn't interesting from any standpoint.  A bad use of pseudo-magical science and a demented deus-ex-machina really sapped my enjoyment.  I would have loved to read about the characters actually being in jeapordy.  Unfortunately, it was one long "watch it all break down" winding down to a disappointing non-end.
1 Zzzzzzz... I had to force myself to finish this book. I loved the first 2 in this series so I had high hopes. Wow, were those dashed. I waited 3 or so years for the final book to come out and this was it? Ugh.I don't want to give away plot points, you can read the description yourself, but the characters were boring, unbelievable, annoying, superficial and totally out of sync with the previous two books. The ending wasn't even really an ending. It was more of a mercy killing.I've slowly been falling out of like with Dean Koontz, his earlier work is brilliant. This one is not. I would say skip it, but if you were a true fan of the first two, you'll want to snatch this one up and read it anyway. I can't stop you, but I can say I tried!
5 I could hardly put these books down. Unique story line from the original tale. Fun and  spooky well woven modern tale.
1 I waited so long, so patiently for book three to come out. Reread the first two, even listened to them on audio CD to get a new perspective (totally recommend the Audio-CDs!) Finally Dean Koontz decides to give us the ending to the trilogy and it turns out that all my anticipation and baited breath was for nothing.It's a terrible thing for a reader to have such great books to start off with and when the finale comes you are left holding what basically surmises as a soggy disjointed disappointing confusing mess of an ending.With such amazing characters as Deucalion and Erika 4 and 5 and Helios, with such potential in the New Race versus the Old race, with such a buildup with the first two books and you JUST KNOW the third is going to blow your socks off!!, to end up with it being at the bottom, literally the bottom of a trash heap? It is inexcusable and lazy writing.I should have know when I saw the 4 or 5 pages of GLOWING reviews for Dean Koontz and his writings in the beginning of the book that something was terribly amiss.  No one that toots their horn that much has anything good to say.I would say to anyone who has read the first two, to not read the third, to use your imagination instead and make the final book come to life in your own head, because believe me when I say that whatever you come up with will be 100% more satisfying than the real thing.
4 I used to travel weekly for my job and I read every top seller at the airport kiosk.  I read the first two and I was very surprised as how he played out his own style of Frank.  The third book was great but I had this strange feeling it was rushed to finally finish or honor a contract with his fans. There was a long wait between the 2nd and final installment. The dog was one of my favorite characters, "kill the pizza boy" at 25MPH.
5 Dean Koontz' Frankenstein series is a very good read.  I couldn't wait to find out how the next book turned out.
4 I enjoyed this book but not until the end. The second book was a full lead into this one and it even picked up exactly where the other left off. The plot has kept me interested but this almost ended that. This more I read the more this story gets weirder and weirder as it goes on. Each chapter seemed to take this story from a plausible idea to absolute ridiculousness. Now I know it is fiction and far from possible, but Koontz wrote the first novel with Victor Frankenstein not only mastering reanimation, but with his superior intellect he was able to solve the problem of mortality. This became so weird that I had lost hope for the story until the end. The ending was very well written and actually brought this installment to a conclusion. I am looking forward to the next chapter in Koontz's Frankenstein.
3 Dead and Alive was a decent book but not one that should end a trilogy.  I know that this is actually supposed to be 6 books (not exactly sure what that is called).  I guess if you look at this as book 3 of six then it will fit in, but at the same time it has drawn a conclusion and yet left everything open to further advancement.It was fun to watch Victor Helios's creations start to turn against him.  A reader got more insight onto what actually goes on with the New Race and how they feel.  I was not fond of the addition of a new monster to add to the mix of the New Race (this one created by Helios).  I find that it actually takes away from the story line by adding something that lacks necessity.  Maybe it will play a role in later books but for right now I don't believe that it should of been brought up.Carson and Michael didn't have a huge role within this book but Deucalion had a bigger part.  I liked the idea of learning more about the New Race and Deucalion and Helios but leaving out Carson and Michael from all of the fun takes away from the main characters from the other two books.All in all I really enjoyed reading this book but I thought that the main story carried over from book 1 and 2 were lost.  Book 3 was a good book but it also wasn't a stand alone novel (at least to me anyways).  If you have read the first two books and really liked them then I think that the third one would be a good read also.
1 Readers of Dean Koontz's Frankenstein have been anticipating the final volume in the series for years. It wasn't worth the wait.Released late last month, Dead and Alive wraps up the author's modernization of the Frankenstein story four years later than originally planned. Reasons for the delay include Koontz's dislike of working with co-authors (both of whose names have been dropped from new printings of books one and two) to the effect of the real-life Hurricane Katrina on the story's New Orleans setting.Somewhere between 2005 and now, Koontz decided not to take the whole thing too seriously: What began as a pulpish horror/adventure story with humorous overtones has morphed into a full-blown farce, complete with a naked, dancing troll with a taste for bath soap and interminable scenes filled with wacky patter that would be more at home in a romantic comedy.Only Deucalion, Victor's first creation from the Mary Shelly novel that served as inspiration for this updating, is still played straight. Detectives Carson O'Connor and Michael Madison are reduced to supporting roles, nattering on about raising babies (they're now in love), eating and shooting guns. A Three Stooges moment as they pursue a naked husband and wife -- one of whom has a "perky butt" -- who are in turn pursuing a dog gives them their sole opportunity to use the guns they have been ogling since book two. The long build-up given to their anticipated shoot out with Victor Frankenstein is a dead end. They would have been just as appropriately armed with rubber-band guns and paper clips.Koontz finds his footing in the final chapters, a Lovecraftian showdown between Frankenstein and his artificial creations inside a series of tunnels beneath a dump. He even sets up a possible sequel and makes a connection to his popular Odd Thomas series. But it's too little, too late. After 352 relentlessly padded pages (I gave up counting how many times Koontz tells us that Victor's creatures gain their memories through data-downloads), the Frankenstein series that began with so much promise limps across the finish line, a pale shadow of what it could have been.
5 A truly great ending to an outstanding trilogy.  Even if it's not truly over.  I can't wait to read book 4 and 5!
3 Dean Koontz's FrankensteinDead and Alive, Book ThreeBantam Books, 2009ISBN: 978-0-553-58790-6352 pagesMass MarketThriller/HorrorDeucalion, the ancient, original creation of the crazed but brilliant mind of Victor Frankenstein is about to put an end to his creator. With the help of a couple of unusual detectives, an ensemble of quickly degenerating characters (part of Frankenstein's terribly flawed new race) and a strange cabal of resurrected Frankenstein cast-offs, he rushes toward his creator's final moments.This final installment of Dean Koontz's Frankenstein trilogy is sometimes entertaining and is definitely unique. But it also disappoints. Like many readers, I was enthralled by Book One of this series. Deucalion is a marvelous and complex character Koontz uses to securely hook you. The second novel, although nowhere near as good as the first, still managed to be interesting enough that I picked up Dead and Alive when it came out in paperback. I probably shouldn't have done this. Koontz followed the same pattern as he did in Odd Thomas: a fantastic initial novel in an ongoing series that has subsequently disappointed and angered me with each new installment.Deucalion is but a guest in the final novel. And the interesting police officers do nothing much but drive around and make quips.  Frankenstein is the focus. As is Jocko, who readers of the second novel expect to be something new and terrible, but who ends up little more than a jester. And Werner, Frankenstein's security chief, is turned into a frightening monster of incredible power only to be dispatched easily and off-page.The whole novel is like this. Taken as a separate work, Dead and Alive has its merits. As the conclusion of a trilogy? I say shame on you, Mr. Koontz.Copyright  Clayton Clifford Bye 2009
5 Book was received in a timely manner and in perfect condition as advertised.Thank you.
2 When I first read PRODIGAL SON, I thought it was fantastic. I still do. After a number of years unable to do much reading because of medical issues, I happened to find PRODIGAL SON at a yard sale, snagged it (don't know where my other copy is), as I had the other two books waiting on a table.The joy and pleasure I had from the first one is still there -- all the characters are fleshed out, the plot is solid, the twists enjoyable ...Polished that off in a few days, to head onto the 2nd and 3rd novels -- to read his preface about 'not playing well with others."  Well, sadly, he needs to learn, since the first was such a great book ... and the second two, I was just shaking my head, waiting for something remotely enticing to jump out at me. Nope, didn't happen.The repetition of his writing was such that I kept thinking, "What, did he forget he already wrote that two chapters ago?"  Did we need to listen to Erika 5 go on and on about how she shouldn't read books, can't do this, can't do that, blah blah?  Where were the exciting action moments with Carson and Michael?  What happened to the decidedly thoughtful Deucalon (sp?) I loved so much from the first book?  He hardly makes any appearances in the third, and they are oddly out of context and lifeless (no pun intended).While I had already put his 4th book on my Holiday Wish List, I may wait to buy it when it's a couple of years old and only costs a few cents. Or get it out from the library. As it surely is NOT going to take up precious space in my personal hard and soft-cover library - room is getting tight these days, and don't need to have useless drivel on the shelves.What a terrible disappointment. But, this IS Koontz' MO - one out of every 10 of his books is really worth reading, yet we all keep buying them, hoping to find those precious nuggets of magnificence that STRANGERS, WATCHERS, ODD THOMAS (the first one), and his wonderful character, Chris Snow from FEAR NOTHING that have made him a superstar of suspense. BTW, what ever happened to THAT series?  I'm still waiting ... and getting AWFULLY tired of his books being re-published every year with either a different cover or different title. THAT is just sleazy to do to your readers...Learn to play well with others -- it keep us wanting to read....
1 . . . to get something so poorly thought out and even more poorly written is a huge disappointment.  Introducing a new important character 70 pages before the end?  Bad form after so much plot and character development.I was a huge fan of the first two books in the series and contacted both the publisher and Mr. Koontz directly to get some idea of when to expect this book, only to get silence in response.  My excited anticipation was only matched by new Chricton books (God rest his soul, he couldn't pump them out like Koontz).I could go on, but there are many others who have already done a good job of skewering this piece of trash on this site.  I'm only posting to drop down the overall rating for this book.Anybody want a free copy?  It's yours for the asking.
2 Koontz has totally lost it. He's gone over the edge.First. Frank 3 was a borefest, okay? No way you can deny it. I wanted to like it, but could not fool myself. And I really do believe, that anyone who says that he/she liked it is fooling him/herself. But, to each his own...My main gripe with the book (aside from being badly written, suspenseless, anticlimactic and nonsensical) is on page 219-220, when Carson is talking to Erika Four on the phone and Michael sits next to her.Some quotes:"All he wanted was to build a utopia.""Paradise on Earth. Nothing wrong with that.""A one-nation world without war," Carson said."All of humanity united in pursuit of a glorious future.""The New Race wouldn't pollute like the Old Race."..."No greed, less waste, a willingness to sacrifice.""They'd save the polar bears," Michael said.Carson said, "They'd save the oceans.""They'd save the planet."All this from their conversation, and it's written in a mocking way, as if wanting to build a paradise, ending wars, waste and greed, saving the polar bears, the ocean and the planet are bad things.Is Koontz so gone now, that he thinks that only dogs and humans are allowed to live?I know it's all fiction and that he sometimes has a wicked sense of humour, but mocking things that would actually be good...? Now, I don't really find it funny the way he did it here, mainly because I know that he always lets his own beliefs shine through in his books (which, sometimes, can be extremely annoying and preachy), so I have to wonder if he really thinks that it's not worth saving the oceans and the polar bears, and not worth stopping wars. Oh, and the only mention he has of anything gay in it, is a clone gone wrong. Thanks, Koontz.Oh well, from what I've learned lately, he was a Bush supporter. I lose more and more respect for him. I just finished it today, it took me two months. Granted, I didn't bring it on my vacation, instead I read (in 3 weeks) Just After Sunset and Man in the Dark in that time. Waaaay better choices. And I didn't miss Frank 3 in this period. I'm looking forward to the next Stephen King, less so the next Koontz.
5 I've enjoyed all three of these Frankenstein novels and they have revealed a sense of humor I haven't seen, rather have not seen in the quantity or laugh-at-loud quality in his other works.  The two detectives are especially humorous even amongst the raging battle of the New Race vs the Old Race. But these aren't books of humor.Dr. Victor Frankenstein and his creation - now creations, are "alive" and not all is going well in the Big Easy after more than 200 years.  Take a gifted but demented Dr. Frankenstein and provide him with all the power that modern science and the capitalist system can provide and you've got a very much updated horror novel.I wouldn't have been surprised to see Odd Thomas cross their paths in New Orleans.If you enjoyed the original Frankenstein and would like to see how a modern day Frankenstein would flourish - then you'll enjoy these.  It is fast moving through all three books.  Maybe Kootz will update some of Jules Verne's works.DK
4 I'm a little confused as to why many readers who loved the first 2 books, seem to hate this one.  I found it very consistent with the other books in the series.  I enjoyed the characters.  Enjoyed watching Helios creations slowly self destructing.  Even enjoyed Helios hubris refusing to see anything but victory.I was a little put off at first when Jocko was introduced, but found quickly he grew on me.  Reminds me very much of the humor Gene Wolfe injected into Book of the Long Sun with Oreb.  Love that dry sense of humor and began to look forward to and expect it in Jocko's scenes.The dectectives weren't the focus of this story and makes sense to me why they were kept on the sidelines.  The story had moved past them as Helios creatures began to take fate into their own hands.This series was never written as a deep serious drama.  It was meant to be light-hearted fare and as that I enjoyed it very much.
5 I'm totally happy with this company. Got my order in the time they said and shape too. would do business with them again.
3 You must be done with the second book and planning to get the third book, but the reviwes are frightening you. So you're wondering if you're ready to pick this book up; the truth is, you really should!The reviews scared me after I got done reading the first two, but I didn't give up on the series because just this book has a poorly rating review.Koontz threw away his co writer from the first two, so it's no wonder why the book was a littler weaker. So what made it weak? First, it's Koontz's choice of words. Instead of writing what's actually happening, Koontz COMPARES rather than writing what's really happening. Second is his new characters. Jocko is more like a troll. As the book moves forward, Dean seems that he's actually ADDING more description to the character. Instead of writing the characteristics of Jocko at once, Dean seems he was adding those characteristics, as if he was trying to improve the character. Then there's The Mother of All Gone Wrongs. Dean doesn't describe the creature, which he should have, only he writes the creauture being undrescribable. I think that's kind of lazyness if he chose to do that.The book isn't bad overall, it's just a weak Frankenstein book. The book is more slower paste than the first two, be prepare for that. Enjoy the series.
2 No way near as great as the first 2 books.  Dean what happened?? :(
4 Great book. There were a few places where it lagged a bit, but I enjoyed it. I found the Jocko character to be endearing, and was happy with the characters in this book.One thing that bothered me was the last 5 pages of the book. I hate when an author wraps up a series in such a brief section. I also wish the end were more final.Yes, I know there are two more books after this one, but I felt this would have been the perfect way to end the series.I would like to add that there are an awful lot of one star reviews for this book, which I think are both unfair as well as politically motivated.  Dean Koontz was the target of a group who tried to paint him as a racist, which I find ridiculous in the extreme, and I believe this is reflected in an active campaign to lower the scores of his books.My advice? Judge for yourself and beware of any review. Including mine :)
5 This is book four in a series.  You know there is at least one more book comming, it is not out or set for release as of yet.  I resisted reading the series but now I'm hooked.  WHERE IS BOOK FIVE!!!
1 I too am totally disappointed in this final book. It reads almost like a parady of the first 2. I generally enjoy his sarcastic characters, but this time EVERYONE is sarcastic, biting and just plain annoying. The first 2 books, while a bit wild in plot, were somehow believable. This isn't. I agree with other reviewers who feel his heart was not in the writing of this book. After 3 years, it would have been appropriate to "catch" us up on things as it were, but no, it was like he just continued on to the next page from the last book. Actually, it's almost like we waited 3 years for just one more chapter, it's that short. It really and truly stunk, I am very disappointed. The characters of Carson and Michael, who were so real and alive in the other 2 books, were also nothing more than two "smart alec" cops you ceased to care about. Heck, I didn't care about anyone in the book, because dean Koontz didn't bother to make me care. Sorry Dean, thumbs down
4 I too was anticipating Koontz' solo and final excursion into a modernized modern Prometheus.  This third installment is filled with more humor and playfulness than its predecessors.  By now, Victor's (Frankenstein's) ghoulish creations are falling apart all over the place while the main heroes, Deucalion and the two detectives, seek a way to strike at the madman himself.  There are many scenes with a troll-like being and Victor's wife-slave Erika-five that are often laugh-out-loud funny.  These serve as a nice foil to Frankenstein's pitch-black megalomania and his sick, twisted vision of a mindless utopia.  I found the references such as Victor refering to hitler as "Dear adolph" and his corroboration with other sympathetic dictators to be poignant.  The allegorical significance of the original Shelly story is preserved here and serves as a warning no less pertinently.This book has good action, more creepy views of Victor's macabre labs, and the dark backdrop of night with a storm approaching.  I did think that Koontz should have used the storm more powerfully to his advantage.  The occurrence of Katrina in the middle of the series could hardly have been more fortuitous for the narrative and presented an irresistible opportunity to incorporate it more in the tale.  Koontz brings Frankenstein and his "monster" together again and along comes the biggest storm in decades.  What a set up!  Sadly, this was not the case and so I am docking the book a star for this missed chance.  I also remove a half star for the final confrontation of Deucalion with his maker.  I expected a bit more out of this than I got.  However, the rest of the novel is a darkly funny read that serves as a worthy endcap to the trilogy.  I would certainly recommend the entire series to any reader looking for a good modern gothic story.  I HIGHLY recommend reading the original Shelly story first, but it's not necessary to enjoy this modern tribute.  I believe Koontz, along with Anderson and Gorman, have captured the essence of the cautionary tale, one which many have forgotten the lesson of.  I will mention a little teaser that the ending is exactly what it should be.  I'll include back a half star since others seem to rather harshly pan the book despite how good a read it really is.
1 Oh, my God! Chapter 36 and 37...my eyes are starting to bleed. About to start page 181. I feel as if I'm reading the book equivalent of the movie "Manos The Hands of Fate," straight up without the humorous asides by the Mystery Science Theatre crew. The writing is simply atrocious. The thought processes are pathetic. The repetitions are bad enough, but the new material, as it comes along, only further destroys the book. Jocko the juggling, soap-eating, ballerina troll...tippytoeing, tippytoeing...quick quick quick to wherever, wherever.Seriously, I no longer care about this novel. I'll read it through like I watched Manos the Hands of Fate. Just to say that I had the intestinal fortitude to do it. The plot doesn't matter any more, the characters...who cares? How does it end? Who cares? Just have Jocko juggling for the next 130 pages...what difference would it make?
1 I have never been a fan of Dean Koontz but then a friend of mine told me to read "Odd Thomas," which I did and somewhat enjoyed.  The same friend then told me to read the "Frankenstein" series and I immediately downloaded the first three onto my Kindle.  I got through the first one ("Prodigal Son") and thought there were some really interesting ideas.  I was accustomed to Koontz's strengths being in character and plotting but had always left the crazy horror ideas to people like Edward Lee or Clive Barker.  By the time I read "City of Night," I started to think that all of those ideas must have come from Koontz's co-writer, Kevin J. Anderson.Then I read "Dead and Alive," the only one written solely by Koontz, and he reminded me why I stayed away from him for so long.  I would love nothing more than to say that Koontz had a three book contract and knew he had a certain word count so he simply typed and typed anything that came to mind and decided to publish it.  This happens a little bit in "Prodigal Son," a lot more in "City of Night," but then is all over the place in "Dead and Alive."  Pages and pages of description go into creating characters or setting up conflicts only for the author to just as quickly tie them up and cast them off when the chapters have been padded out to the right length and the book almost completed."Dead and Alive" is all padding, two-thirds of a book of people doing nothing but talking or wandering around.  There is no new information in this story until the ending.  The fact that the ending is very dumb is almost beside the point.  It feels like the ending Koontz probably came up with when he started the series as it's just bad Koontz.  Everything else in the book is just awful writing.  I will never read another Koontz book.
2 This story is slow and the characters unsympathetic.  I like the idea of genetics superfreaks running amuck and the Frankenstein's wise monster is a cool character.  I'd say this book is good enough to read, but not really worth more than a few bucks.  Far from Koontz's best effort.And please, Dean, would you stop with all the smug swipes at everyone on earth who doesn't share your religion?!  Contrary to what you state or imply in virtually every one of your recent books, again and again, it IS possible to live in a moral fashion and love one's fellow humans, and to find meaning in life, without reference to a higher power.  The opposite of monotheism is not necessarily chaos or amorality.  Just give it a rest!  Please!Sorry, but this tendency on Koontz's part is getting really old.
5 I love the idea of an ancient monster becoming a hero.  I love the modernization of bringing that "monster" into our time. I love the characterization of the detectives, the monster (I hate to call him that-because, clearly he is not a monster), and all the people they come into contact with.I love the characterization of the people the true monster (Victor) created, Erika 5 and Jocko. Evil cannot control all. Goodness will always arise, somehow!I appreciate Mr. Koontz's vision into the real enemies of our time. He is awake.I love this modern version of Frankenstein as much as Ms Shelly's original. Both authors saw evil in their time, but goodness triumphed!The ONLY thing that I do not love about this series is that it ended.
5 This book was very enjoyable. Once I started reading it, I couldn't put it down. I'm hooked, I will definately be reading the entire series.
1 I have not read any Dean Koontz novels for some time now. I tried to read 77 Shadow Street but was unable to finish. I Had never read the Frankenstein series and recently thought I would tackle them. It is worse than I thought!!Does Mr. Koontz expect us not to regurgitate when he tries to force feed us his thinly veiled views on religion and politics passed off as a novel?! With each ensuing book it gets worse. There is no imagination here and very little attempt to write well.Why do fiction writers think they can do this and keep their old fans?  I have mourned the loss of once good writers like John Grisham and Orson Scott Card, now add Dean Koontz to that list.I will not be investing time or money into the fifth book or any or any further novels by Dean Koontz.
2 Like other reviewers, I've waited eagerly for this third installment. I bought all three books in the trilogy, since it had been quite a while since I'd the first two.I remember *loving* the first two books, but something seemed...amiss; didn't like them as well the 2nd time around. A lot was clarified for me when I read Koontz's admission about rewriting them. I wish I had the original ones I had bought so I could compare the different versions, seeing what I liked/didn't like about the rewrites, and how extensive they might have been.The third book...just horribly lame. Did Koontz so dislike the first two books that he felt he had to jag in a 90-degree direction on this one? The writing is terribly un-Koontz: not scary, not compelling, not funny, not uplifting. In the least.I have the same opinion as one of the other reviewers: I think Koontz ought to let his co-writers on the 1st two books rewrite the third; there might be something worth reading after that, at least.
5 If you don't love this book, you don't understand Dean Koontz. This is the perfect culmination of the Frankenstein series. It is vintage Koontz - mystical, philosophical, dog-loving, Second Amendment, and mind-bending. If you are looking for rationality, try someone else.Koontz is about fantasy, and this story is fantastic. If  you really get Koontz, you realize it is not about the plot or the story-telling, it is about feeling and character. The characters in this story are as real as Koontz as he gets. I want to have a beer with Carson and Micheal, pet Duke and stay away from Victor. (Although that may not be possible.)This book combines the old Koontz, the mid-Koontz and the Helios Koontz. If you know what that means, you will love this book. Otherwise, try Conroy. Although his latest, "South of Broad," did have a bit of Koontz in it.
2 HUGE disappointment.  I asked myself repeatedly, "And Dean Koontz REALLY wrote this?!"  Truly, he must have wrote it while he was waiting for a plane.  It was that shallow and poorly written.  Huh.  I'm shocked, really.
4 Having read the prior 2 books so long ago, it took a few pages into the story to get re-oriented.  This is the final book about scientist Victor Helios Frankenstein and his plot to control the world by crafting a New Race who will exterminate all of mankind.  Starting by making one hero, Deucalion, chronicled in past novels, he has moved to growing his army in tanks.  The book picks up the story with the two human detectives and Deucalion hunting down Victor and the new race.  However, entropy has taken over and Victor's creations are breaking down to become even greater monstrosities or more human.  So the stage is set to meet the new race, the motherly Erika 5 and  Jocko.  Who can not love the antics of this soap-eating troll?  There is black humor (district attorneys murdering neighbors), and the expected Koontz hero dog.  I found the package quite enjoyable, although the ending is disjointed from the sense of the rest of the story, sort of stuck on to finish the tale.  Overall, I would recommend it to those who have read the first two books.  The first was still the best, but this is a solid B.
5 The Dead and Alive: Frankenstein Book 3 by Dean Koontz's was a 2010 Christmas gift.  Our son absolutely adored and loved it.
4 This is certainly not Dean Koontz best effort, but even Dean in a slump is better than most other writers. I find it hard to believe what many people read and consider to be good writing. I found myself very interested in the characters and the story really pulled me along. I don't have as much time to read in the evening as I would like, but had a hard time putting out the light to go to sleep. That's a sign of compelling characterization and plot to me, and I'm a very picky reader of fiction.I would like to have seen more of Deucalion, Carson O'Connor and Michael Maddison and a bit less of the Frankenstein creations, but the mix worked in the story. I found myself feeling sorry for the Erika's (4 & 5) and the Jocko character and hoped for the best for them. There may have been too many other New Race creatures thrown in, though. Also, Dean Koontz is usually capable of some truly eloquent and poetic prose. This novel left a bit to be desired in that regard and was not up to his usual level of excellence.I feel that there are too many 1 & 2 star ratings for this book. As I said, DK at his worst is still better than most other writers at their best and so it's unfortunate that some folks feel compelled to trash this book with unfairly low ratings. I think there must be some other factor at work, here and perhaps an unspoken motivation for the 1 or 2 star ratings. It's not right. It's worth at least 3 stars. I gave it 4 for some great characters, including Duke and Jocko, a really fast pace and a somewhat ingenious and satisfying tie-up in the end.
2 Dean Koontz will go for chapters on chapters trying to convince us that his villains are evil. Just so thoroughly, ridiculously evil he makes his readers roll their eyes and say "Oh come on."Well Koontz failed. Helios is still my favorite character in the whole series. At least he's working to wipe out the human race, which if they are half as smug, self-righteous, sentimental and smart-arse as the heroes in this book then genocide is justifiable. Our modern times aren't the "New Sodom and Gomorrah" so I don't see why the detectives would bring that up as an turn of phrase other than Dean Koontz inserting his own bizarre and insane insights.Also after a hundred pages you realize just how convenient everything is for the heroes. If Deuculion needs a bomb, there's already one installed at the hospital and requires no security to get in. If a few members of the New Race need to turn good, they just get instantly brainwashed by a frickin' angel that appears at the end. If Erika and Jocko need to survive the destruction that kills the New Race, THEY JUST DO! WITHOUT EXPLANATION! Other than maybe God protected them! He must have, because there is no reason for them surviving. They should have died with all the others, and it would added something of bitterweetness to the ending! Not that Erika or Jocko really demonstrated anything positive qualities, they just weren't evil or tormented like the others.This whole book makes me want to go on fanfiction dot net and write an alternative story about how this book should have gone: Helios is forced to enact his world domination plans early (he wants to overtly take control of New Orleans) and Hurricane-Katrina-soaked New Orleans is overrun by legions of the New Race who are mutating into hideous creatures. We would have several scenes of the National Guard and police being ripped apart by the superhuman New Race. The dwarf-thing that hatched out of Harker (he wouldn't be called Jocko either) would then end up killing Erika, maybe accidentally (this is a Frankenstein story after all). Helios then transfers his brain into his perfect cloned body and then battles Deucalions on an even toe with lightning and the storm all around them. Deucalion finally defeats Helios, but dies himself as well probably by quantum teleporting into and merging together into one---creator and creation as one. Our heroes get back to mansion where they discover the dead Erika and kill the deranged Harker-Dwarf thing and evading the traps, end up in a room where a certain gas-filled coffin-shaped container opens revealing the alien life-form that Helios had been holding captive for over 200 years, and where he learned all his advanced scientific knowledge from. Helios was in fact a mere pawn, and now that his new race is revealed the masquerade is over, the new masters of the earth can take control. It is then that the scrambling corpses of the garbage pit have returned to life and are attacking the mansion, which is outfitted with a powerful explosive. Setting it off the alien and the corpses are destroyed along with our heroes. During the chaos of the Hurricane none of this was noticed, and our unsung heroes died anonymously, never knowing that they saved the world. There would be not a single dog either.I'll still read the next in the series. It can only go up from here.
1 I did not like this book at all.The story was very weak.Maybe with the mer fact that Koontz had to change the story probably plays into it
5 I have been a fan of Dean Koontz since I was a kid.  I think I have just about ever book he has ever written.  If you love a good story that you can't put down, give one of his a try.  You won't be disappointed!
2 (Warning:  Minor spoilers below, marked at the relevant line withs ****.)This book was, unfortunately, a huge disappointment.  The overall Amazon reviews suggest I'm not alone with that feeling - books 1 and 2 are rated pretty highly on average.  Book 3, not so much.The general problem was that the book seemed rushed and all over the place.  It felt like Koontz knew where he wanted to go with book 2, but really wasn't sure where he wanted to go with the conclusion, so he wrote a somewhat stream of consciousness plotline just to get it done.  Random characters are introduced and fade away, most of the plot and events do not feel connected to the atmosphere that was built in the previous book, and there is no sense of urgency driving you to turn the page as there was in part 2.Two specific things particularly bothered me (spoilers below):**** (1) There is a fine line between snappy banter between two characters and dialogue that is trying too hard to be clever and becomes unrealistic instead. This is probably one of those "doesn't bother everyone" things, but it's a pet peeve of mine. Many of the conversations between two of the main characters read like Gilmore Girls conversations, which just bothered me.****(2) The single best thing about the book was a poignant end to one of the better subplots, and then Koontz ruined it with a deus ex machina "just kidding, happy ending!" a few pages later.If you've already read the first two, it's not so terrible that you should skip it, but be prepared to skim and be mildly disappointed.
3 I just finished book 3 in this Frankenstein series. I LOVED the first two books. I was excited to see how it was going to end and picked up the book immediately after finishing book two.I felt like this book was kind of rushed :( Dean Koontz is a brilliant writer so I was a bit put off by the over-explaining of some of the scenes. He spends a whole page describing deer, what they looked like, what type, why they were on the road, etc...which had really no purpose whatsoever. He then spends a whole chapter describing the mental breakdown of one of the house staff, which also seemed a bit irrelevant. Then he fast forwards a year into the future at the end and we missed ALL the "juicy" details about our hero and heroine, how they ended up where they did, etc. I also get that this is fiction, but even some of the things in this book were not belieable and did not match the storyline from the previous books. Just not believeable. I understand I'm not alone in this feeling about book 3, and I understand he has written two more. I will perhaps wait til I can check them out from the library.Three stars.
5 I ordered this book as a used book, but when I received it, it looked to me like a new book and that a page had not even been turned. I received this book on time without any problems.I would definately use this seller again.
5 This is the third volume in Dean Koontz's Frankenstein series. It continues the story in the first two books. Readers may want to look at my reviews of the other volumes, Prodigal Son and City of Night. All of the books combine a horror tale and humor. They imagine that Mary Shelly, the original author of Frankenstein based her novel on true occurrences, but got the facts wrong. Both Dr. Frankenstein and his monster are still alive. Victor Helios is the name that Dr. Victor Frankenstein is using in New Orleans over two hundred years after he created his monster who he thinks is dead. He is evil while his monster is good. Helios is manufacturing what he considers new improved beings, a new race, that he intends to use to kill and replace humans. These will be beings that do his bidding. Helios is over confident. Although he has been experimenting for two centuries, his beings, now numbering a couple of thousands, and placed in prominent New Orleans positions after the humans they are replacing are killed, are beginning to fall apart. They were created to feel only envy, anger, and hatred of humans, no other emotions; but they are yearning to feel what humans feel and are beginning to do so.Helios' fifth creation of a beautiful sophisticated wife to satisfy his sadistic sexual urges is seen eating in the living room, "as if she were an ignorant hillbilly." Harker, a replacement of a human detective, dies as a small almost translucent being comes out of his body, something that Helios never planned. "If any child were to come upon him accidentally, the unfortunate tyke might need years to regain control of his bladder, and would be traumatized for life." Werner, his lab assistant, develops weird ideas and begins to swallow other Helios' creatures; he is now walking around with six legs. A cat-like, virtually invisible Chameleon, designed to kill humans, has escaped and wants to kill humans without waiting for Helios' order, and Helios is a human. Will it kill him? The dead new race created by Helios and killed because they were unsatisfactory are beginning to talk in their grave. Have they been resurrected? Will Helios' first creation be able to stop Helios?
1 No plot, no character development- just a sad, feeble-minded rant against technology.I now see Helios as a parody of Koontz, with visions of Koontz alternating between admiring himself in the mirror and devolving into madness as he reads reviews of this book.A shame that Koontz doesn't like collaborating- Frankenstein 1 and 2 were his only good books in nearly a decade. Odd Thomas 1 and 3 were okay. 2 and 4 not so much.Usually I wouldn't be so harsh, and respect an author more but Koontz's arrogant proselytizing in his book notes make me want to whack him and tell him to smarten up. Write well- which you have proven you can do many times- or stop writing.I have to conclude his publication pace and lack of quality means he's chasing some weird dream like surpassing books sold from some other author.
5 What a lot of the other reviewers are neglecting to say is that this book begins where book two left off.  The action in all three books takes place over a 48-hour period.  Koontz is known for writing books whose action covers a small space of time.  Hence his pace is usually breakneck.  Dead and Alive did not disappoint!As you know, book two ended with Victor's New Race starting to drop bits of their programs. The iron grip he thought he had on his creations is dissolving.  Some of the replicants he has put in the place of key New Orleans citizens whom he wanted to control have begun behaving against his programming.  Tired of waiting for the order to mass murder weak humans, they've begun their own private Armageddon.Meanwhile cops Carson and Michael are working with Victor's first creation, Deucalion, who is determined to bring Victor's evil rule to an end or die trying.  In this book Carson and Michael are still trading barbs, Michael as irreverent as ever.  And we are shown how Victor's New Race is falling apart and how Victor, megalomaniac that he is, refuses to see it until the very end. I was pleased with Erika Five's fate because I identified with the poor wives.  And I finally got to find out what was in the glass coffin in Victor's secret sitting room. I actually guessed right about that one!  This was a fun read for me.  It answered all of my questions.  The ending left me wondering whether there might be a book four.  And there was a reference to a monastery that Odd Thomas spent time at in Brother Odd.  So there was a little crossover action with another Koontz book that I enjoyed.Yes, I agree that it was too short.  I wanted it to last longer.  I wanted to know more about the characters.  But I believe it acheived what the third book in a trilogy should do: Wrap up the tale in an exciting, memorable way.  Of course, some will disagree with me.  However, no writer can please all of the readers all of the time.  He simply writes a book that expresses his vision.  That's all he CAN do!
4 Dean Koontz has ended his Frankenstein trilogy with all the suspense and creativity I would expect from one of his novels.  Things are very bizarre in the world of Victor Frankenstein aka Victor Helios.  If you love the weird and unexpected, then you will enjoy this series very much.  Victor's New Race is running amok and morphing into strange new beings.  Will he succeed in taking over the world with them?  Well, I would not want to ruin the ending for anyone, but I will say that Koontz has let his imagination run wild as only he can.  A completely engaging tale of unbelievable genetic engineering, action-packed and fast-moving as he spins the story toward the surprise packed ending.  If you love Dean Koontz' writing, you should definitely enjoy this modern day tale of the Frankenstein legend and the new twists offered here.  There was a considerable time gap between the release of books 2 and 3.  If you want the full impact and continuity, it would be my recommendation to read or reread books 1 and 2 and then dive right into book 3.  It is a wild ride!
4 ... it was supposed to be a trilogy, right? That's what it was first published to be, but the ending brazenly extends the idea. If it weren't for that, this trilogy, even with the loopholes, would have been a great series all its own with only these three.It begins with a quote from C.S. Lewis as well as a dedication to Mr. Lewis for how bold he was in showing how science can go from being about knowledge to be about gripping the masses with power. This book is mainly about that- controlling a population with the supposition that one has perfect knowledge both in science and in self, so therefore, that one can do no wrong. So, he can go ahead and curse his first creation for not being gracious about being alive, and create beings more powerful than human beings. Yet, for all the knowledge he has, he's ignorant of how far his own empire is falling apart, even without the help of two New Orleans cops and Victor's original creation, nicknaming himself Deucalion. He's also so self-righteous that he believes himself to be THE god. From each chapter, told (in 3rd person point of view style), you see the world differently: the arrogance of pride that no god is out there and you can do every amoral act and get away with it, cops with morals finding a way to get rid of this evil, the original creation wanting to rid the world of his on plight, or even a former tumor that wants to live life as normal as possible, not matter how impossible.Though, towards the end, even though most of the story is really good, it seems to fall apart right after the end of Victor, when a new mystery comes forth and the cliffhanger happens.If only the last two books would be as great as the first three.
4 Wouldn't it be nice if we could step through walls and travel from one continent to another?Dean Koontz sure knows how to write very fascinating protagonists (for those who don't know what a protagonist is: A protagonist is the leading character or champion or a particular cause.)I was the protagonist in my own true story "Fighting the Devil".I have a particular fondness for books that have good vs evil. This is one of those stories. However, it helps if you have read the two books that came out first in this series.  I am not particularly fond of sci/fi thrillers, but I found this one to be a good read.Jeannie Walker - Award Winning Author of "Fighting the Devil" - A True Story of Consuming Passion, Deadly Poison, and Murder
4 I am in awe of this series. Dean Koontz has managed to build upon Mary Shelley's story and create his own nightmarish vision of the Frankenstein universe, remaining reverent of the original. Each successive book is better than the last, ratcheting up the tension and building the mystery even further. I can't wait to see what happens in book 4 and 5. If they have been anything like the first three, it will be a pleasure to dive once more into the frightening world of Victor Frankenstein and his creations.
5 This third installment is by far the best of Dean Koontz' Frankenstein series. The pace is breathtaking, and the way he weaves multiple story lines together is truly masterful. I must respectfully disagree with those who felt the ending was weak. On the contrary, I found it quite satisfying. Yes, he could have written another couple of thousand words to spell the recap scenes out in detail, but in context I felt the summary worked well. Certainly the door is open for more to this story -- not just due to the figure in the box, but also because he brought characters from "Brother Odd" in at the end. Considering how some elements of the Chris Snow series were pulled into Odd Thomas, it seems as if these three wonderful story lines could converge into a spectacular finale. I would certainly love to see that. I heartily recommend this book.
3 The series is mostly entertaining though it lacks depth and mystery. In particular, depth into Frankenstein&#8217;s monster and Frankenstein himself. Those two characters had great potential! An entire book devoted to them is what was needed &#8211; how they came into being &#8211; and why.And I don&#8217;t mean Mary Shelley&#8217;s book either. I mean Koontz&#8217;s book. He put a very creative twist on the original and that is what was needed to be explored more.The books are too short; not enough development. Maybe the publisher insisted on this. If so, then Mr. Koontz should have sought after another.There is one more thing. Starting with book-2, there is far to much recap from the previous books distributed throughout the series. I found that very annoying.However, still and always shall be, a fan of Dean Koontz!
1 As long as it took for this book to come out it seems like it was written over a weekend. I have been a fan of Dean Koontz for many years but this is one of the worst books I have ever read from any author. At the very least the next book should be sold at a discount to make up for this one. His books are always priced at a premium (even on Kindle it costs as much as a paperback) and I do not feel that I got my money's worth this time.
3 Overall, I enjoyed the first 3 books of this series. Dead and Alive has a satisfactory ending on its own, but leaves room for the sequels. I liked the characters and the relationships between Erika 5 and Jocko and between the 2 detectives. As I look around my office, I wonder how many of my co-workers are from the New Race.
5 What can I say? It's Dean back again with some favorite characters who we love to read about.This is a great series and rates up there with Odd.
5 Dean Koontz's Frankenstein series is much fun. Koontz has this macabre sense of humor. The books are great fun to read.
5 Koontz never ceases to amaze me.  When I thought this would be no more than a rote completion of a trilogy, he wove an extended tale, pulled in the 2 previous books, and made a complete idea.  Much like his Odd Thomas books, each of these books is stand alone, but also dependent on the previous books.  How does one do that!I thought the Odd Thomas series was the only set of Koontz books I would keep in hard copy. now he has forced me to buy these.  A double sale since I read this on my kindle.  He may have pased Steven King for American author's in this genre.If you have not read any of these, go to your library or Borders or Barnes and Noble and start with Book 1.  You will want a hard copy (actually a paper back copy of this series).
5 Couldn't understand why it took so long for the third installment of this book to be published.  Although the ending seemed to come very quickly, it had to end somehow.  And, although Koontz left the ending open for a fourth book, I doubt that we'll see one.John V. Karavitis
5 The &#34;Dead and Alive&#34; CD arrived promptly and was as described.  We have both read it and enjoyed it very much.  I will recommend these people to all my friends.
3 read this before.  not as good as the first one. his ODD Thomas series was much much better.  Love Odd Thomas.
3 I agree with some of the other reviews with regards to the rushed ending. I like the series overall but characters that were developed in the first two seemed to go nowhere and the ending felt like was completely rushed. I just heard that three more Frankenstein books are coming so maybe they will redeem this one.
5 I have never read any of these stories but my mom really enjoys these stories she 's always dropping hints for more books.
5 Say what you will about how his last few novels have read a little thin (they have), this showed us a Dean in high form.  There are themes here.  A purpose.  And meaning: that if you separate the intellect from love, goodness, truth, beauty, justice, grief, hope and dreams, you get nothing but emptiness in return.  And, even for his thinner novels, (apparently EVERYONE hated Darkest Evening of the Year, while I loved it), there are times - especially in this world - when I DESPERATELY need Koontz's optimism, even if most his novels feature Golden Retrievers that may or may not be Jesus in dog form.
5 A must read by all lovers of Dean Koontz - See my review in Frankenstein: City of Night: A Novel (Dean Koontz's Frankenstein)
5 Read the entire series of 5 in a couple weeks. I was pulled in on book 1 and held to the end of book 5. I really enjoyed the story. Love the characters, lots of charm, witty conversation between them. Get them all, read them all
3 After waiting years for the final chapter in this series, I was extremely disappointed.It didn't measure up to  the 1st 2 books, Dean should have written it with someone else as he did with the 1st 2 books.
5 This story was a good book. I have enjoyed reading this book. Dean Koontz is a very good writer.This third story will keep you more on the edge of your seat and makes you want to read the next one.Great ending.Can't wait to read the rest of this series.
2 I am so sad to write this review!  I loved the series up 'til now, waiting anxiously for the last installment.  What a bitter disappointment.  I could hardly make myself finish it.  It's October--Halloween month--and I thought this would be the PERFECT book to "read" in the car on my long trips to and from college.  I was wrong!  Of course, with any book-on-tape, there is the variable of the reader's interpretation, but the dialogue and writing is just so.....childish!  The voice given to Carson (the female detective) is awful, and the deconstruction of Victor's race happens with such inane dialogue and silly actions.  What happened to the sexual tension between the two detectives?  There are a couply of raunchy interactions and that's it.  The only saving grace, for me, in the last installment is Victor's wife, Erika...  The Jonathan Harker creature, "Jocko," is RIDICULOUS!  Even Deucalion seems lessened in this book.  I know that Mr. Koontz waited to write this book because it is set in New Orleans, and he felt they had been through enough with Hurricane Katrina, but he must have become de-invested in the book or its characters and it shows.  Recently, I read some of the Odd Thomas books, and Odd's quirky voice and actions "fit" in those storylines (although some are over the top).  That sort of "quirky" style has no place in this novel, however.  It is just plain hokey.  Save your money and check it out at the library if you must.  I know I would have wanted to read (or listen in this case)to the book, simply because I had enjoyed the series up 'til now, but whatever you do, unless you have money to burn, DON'T spend REAL cash on this.
5 I don't understand the one star reviews.  I read this in one sitting.  I literally could not put it down.  After books one and two, I  couldn't wait to read book three and I was not disappointed.
1 I read the first two books. There were things I didn't like, such as the silly banter between the policeofficers that was supposed to be funny (I THINK) but wasn't, but I enjoyed the first two books so much, I gave them each 4 stars.All the negative things I found in the first two books are present in book 3 and magnified many times. The policeofficers and their stupid banter, that is supposed to be witty and funny but is stupid instead, their forced, unbelievable romance that doesn't for one single moment ring true AT ALL to me, and their continued far fetched portrayal of what a policeoffice actually IS and DOES.This book was really bad. So bad, that when a friend told me Koontz had originally written the series with someone else and later changed the by line to his name only, I did internet research to confirm that this book wasn't really written by Koontz at all. I wasn't able to confirm that.I had pages marked with silly dialogue, stupid descriptions that I once again THINK are supposed to be funny but are cringe worth instead, cliched jokes, cliched characters, predicable plot mixed in with plot twists that are just so unbelievable as to feel completely wrong, and a CONSTANT baseball bat beating me over the head. The baseball bat was a constant repetition of what a monster Victor is, how inhuman he is, how he hates humanity, how he engineered his New Race to be without hope or happiness or self worth, engineered them to be sterile, ect. There is also a very strong under current of "god" and devine intervention, in images of resurection and angels. Now, I don't mind subtle religious undertones, but I really have grown to dislike heavy handed devices of devine intervention and devine direction to the point that any free will of heores themselves is put in doubt.I had numerous pages marked with dialogue or descriptions that actually made me physically cringe, and planned on giving examples here, but I'm just tired. I'm sick and tired of this book. It is so bad, I have a physical feeling of disappointment inside when I think of it. I had bought this book used, having heard it was terrible, and I'm so glad I didn't pay full price for this.I won't open the book and give my specific examples, but there are a few things that stick out in my mind, and I will include those.A description of one of the New Race running down the street being chansed by police in a car. The car isdescribed as stopping with a scretch of brakes, and then the New Race woman is llitterally described as stopping "without a scretch".A short, thin, grotesque, slow witted, troll of a man being described as having an uncontrollable urge to dance and juggle and tumble, and has an unfounded desire for a "funny hat with bells". I guess, what else is a small, deformed man supposed to be in any context if not a court jester? Where did THIS come from? Really?Victor, our mad scientist villian, had been perfecting his New Race to kill humanity and create a world where there is no love or god or reproduction of families, just lab born, souless machines. He's been perfecting them for 200 years, yet his creation all of a sudden for no readon, except perhaps devine intervention, begin to go insane in spectacular fashion, going on killing sprees, running naked and bloody, yelling, through the streets, killing dozens of children, and there is zero mention of ANY ONE at all noticing.Discarded New Race men and women abandoned in a dump call themselves dumpsters. DUMPSTERS!! Wow, I mean, just, wow. Did Koontz write this thing when he was 12 years old?Our hero LEAVING the place where our villian Victor is to go to the dump. He LEAVES without a confrontation. Oh, but he does kill two inconsequential people of the New Race, claiming he KNEW what they wanted, what they needed, which was to die, even though they can't ask for it. How can he presume this? If he wants to kill them, fine. If they are a threat to humanity, and they must die, fine, but to presume that because they aren't human that they WANT to die? To me, this felt like a statement of the author, that to be without hope or worth or to not be what some other person feels is human must equal a desire to die without question. With the religious overtones to the rest of the book, that then translated into, to be without god equals a desire, a need to commit suicide, a requirement to die, that life is utterly without worth. And of course, our hero is there to do the deed, to presume the desire for suicide though none of then can ask for it and to graciously, sorrowfully, release these poor, godless souls. Because, they are without souls, without god, so OF COURSE they want to die, right? And, while he kills these two inconsequentials, he doesn't bother to even try to kill the monstrocity that roams the halls devouring everyone or any of the others of the New Race he encounters. What if this monster escaped? Or any of the crazies? So, he LEAVES without taking care of Victor or this horrible, deadly monster.And, in the end, nothing happens. The whole book is mostly just a bunch of people getting in cars and driving arround. Unless you are our hero Deucalion, of course, who has his own way of magical travelling between points, even if he has never been to those points before. Need to go to the dump? Never been there? No problem, "pop" there you are! And as for Deucalion, he is hardly even in this book at all. Overall, such a disappointment. I don't think this review does justice to just how disappointed I want with this book. I've sat here, staring blankly at the screen trying to come up with something, ANYTHING, redeeming about this book, and I can't. There is nothing.
4 In this book, the story lines that were created in books 1 & 2 come together and conclude. The beings that Helios/Frankenstein created are having programming breakdown faster and faster with every new batch; the latest Erika (his wife), Erika Five, starts misbehaving after only a few hours, and has made friends with a mysterious dwarf who appears in the backyard. The head maid now thinks she&#8217;s the mistress of Manderlay. The minions who run the county dump &#8211; where bodies are disposed of by Helios- are thinking for themselves. Something is happening the dump. And people who are supposed to be dead may actually be alive- for a while, anyway.Sadly, despite all these things happening, the breakneck pace generated in the second book is not sustained in this one. Sequences that should have been crisp and rapid dragged. Not all of them, mind you, but enough that I felt the book was a little longer than it needed to be. Still a good book with weird events, but not quite as good as it could have been.
5 After books 1 and 2, book 3 was a bit of a let down.  I really enjoyed the Frankenstein series though.  The characters are great.  The dog never lets me down!  Dean Koontz is the best.
5 I really love this series and would read them all over and over again. Nice to see a &#34;monster&#34; being the good guy for once.
5 Another hit in the Frankenstein series! Koontz delivers again in another heart pounding story of Deucalion's pursuit to exact his revenge and justice on Victor Helios. This is a fast pace roller coaster ride of adventure ending in another Koontz style cliffhanger. An incredible series that touches the soul and shows what can happen when a god complex is combined with money and power.
5 Was looking for the Frankenstein series. found the first three books. They were brand new and arrived in good time.
3 Like many of Koontz's fans I have been waiting eagerly for this final installment.  Unfortunately it reads as though the author was much less enthusiastic about finishing it than the readers were.I really enjoy Dean Koontz's books... but the problem is that while some of them are just amazing the remainder range from mediocre to bad.Deucalion, Helios, and Erika are still great in this book.Michael and Carson are not.  They don't seem to carry forward their personalities from the earlier novels - it's almost like the author didn't bother to re-read his own stories to make sure they stayed in character.But it still moves, and it's still interesting, it just feels thrown together.  Less humor less depth and less quality than I hope for (used to be expect) in Koontz's novels.I know others have said in the past that it seems as though Koontz is now employing a ghost writer - this is the first time I didn't think it was just a conspiracy theory.  It felt like DK laid out the story and the ideas and someone else filled in the blanks.  My guess is that he just wasn't that into it but now I understand where that idea comes from.It's a shame because this was a super promising premise when he wrote the first two books.
5 Well this is the 3rd  book  to the series and  i hope  you enjoy it as much as me.Like the first 2 I found it hard to put down.Doing a lot  of midnighters.Thoroughly enjoyed it.Starting  no4
4 This third book in the five part Frankenstein series by Dean Koontz will please any of his fans. This volume introduces more strange creatures made by Victor Frankenstein or somehow arising from the evolution of his experiments.  The new race he has invented begins to spiral out of control, and the cop duo we have come to know and love are basically the only humans aware of the situation.  Events escalate to an extent that almost seems to end the story. I look forward to seeing what the fourth book holds in store.  Fun "entertainment" reading.Michael Travis Jasper, author of the novel "To Be Chosen"
1 This book was a disappointment.Why are the detectives still here? They seem to be nothing more than a loose string. A string Koontz toys with solely because it was already there. They've been getting ready for the apocalypse and get... something much less interesting.There are so many ridiculous plot devices used that it is beyond infuriating. It seems like Koontz couldn't figure out how to end the series. So, he decided to find the simplest way out. He gave up on interesting plot threads, he came up with new characters that were disappointments, and other characters became shadows of their previous self. Then he left us with an ending that wasn't an ending at all.The book was also highly repetitive. How many times do we have to hear that the lighting made Deucalion something more than a monster? How many times do we need an inventory of his criminal origins? How many times do we need to hear about the pulse of illumination in his eyes? How many times do we have to hear about Carson's dead father? How long could this list be? Trust me it could be much longer. Definitely a bad trait. Especially for a book that isn't even 400 pages.It honestly felt like Koontz intentionally insulted his fans for pressuring him. We wanted the book because we loved the first two. We were upset because it was promised and never delivered. Now Koontz has insulted his readers and many are beyond upset. I personally will think long and hard before buying another Koontz book.
1 Wow, what a horrendous ending to a series that started out good.  To start, the book had about ten pages worth of Koontz's acclaims before you could get to the story.  Its almost as if he was trying to prove something, and in doing so, lost sight of how to write a decent story.  He also had no co-authors for this edition of the trilogy and maybe that's why it was so different as the coauthors must have been pulling all the weight before.  There are two books that come before this, and they're both pretty good, and the series should be read in order.  For those unfamiliar with the tale (and possibly a spoiler, you are warned), Deucalion (Frankenstein's monster) has discovered his creator still lives and is in New Orleans.  He travels there and discovers that Victor has created many more beings and they are slowly taking over the city.  Cops Michael and Carson have been trailing a serial killer and when they meet Deucalion, they realize there's a much bigger threat to the city in the form of Victor's creations and the penchant they have started to have for going out of control and crazy.  They struggle to keep alive despite assassins and bring us to this book, Dead and Alive.Dead and Alive takes place shortly after the 2nd book and there is so much going on and it's all over the place that its hard to describe the plot.  Carson and Michael drive around a lot and meet up with Deucalion when they discover there's something at the dump that could help them out in ways unimaginable.  Mostly the book focuses on Victor and his creations that are losing their minds and going against their programming.The characters were horrendous in this book.  We barely see the main characters of Deucalion, Michael, and Carson, which is surprising considering they were the main focus in the first two books.  Victor goes even more and more unbelievable, and his creations are even stranger.  There is a glimmer of light in Jocko, but really, his character didn't actually fit with the story.The writing was pretty awful as well.  Koontz jumps all over the place and adds things that don't need adding.  He also unleashes a pretty big, definitely inappropriate, deux ex machina in his story that just made me groan and shake my head in disbelief.  But hey, at least there weren't too many pop culture references in this book (something that drives me nuts in the first two).  This book abounds with tons of gore and violence and murders and may be a little too much for more sensitive readers.This book definitely doesn't inspire me to go read anything else by Koontz for awhile.  Its amazing that he could take such a good series and turn it into a deplorable book like this.Dead and AliveCopyright 2009352 pagesReview by M. Reynard 2011
1 Not much to recommend this book. Too bad I got sucked in via the other 2.
3 This one didn't flow nearly as well as the first two. I felt there was too much back and forth between scenes, without as much development of the characters or the plot. He set the scenes very nicely, but I didn't find the action engaging. Everyone seemed to be wandering. This, by no means, will discourage me from reading Koontz in the future, but it did seem to be a very long wait for a novel that fell well short of what I've come to expect from him.
5 Read the last in the series first as audio. Wonderful character development, exciting action, such that I may go back and read the others. Mr. Kuntz does it again. So exciting that the 2 hour drive each way to work in rush hour traffic was childs play. Told from the point of view of more than one character, the story is quintessential horror that is quite plausible. Very evil vs good, science meets science fiction, high tech genetic manipulation, time and place travel, matter and energy manipulation, wuu wuu, and just plain fun. Can't give away the ending, but as usual, karmic resolution for the evil done to others, plus a fine dog is great Dean K. read. One of his best.
5 No matter what Dean Koontz writes it is usually great. This is another one on in a set on 4 in a series he wrote. It is about good and evil.
5 Frankenstein Dead and Alive was a very good novel. I really enjoyed it as I do all of Dean Koontz's Novels. I would highly recommend this series to all horror fans or fans of Dean Koontz . It is very well written.
4 I came to this book with a healthy respect for Dean Koontz, and I was not disappointed.  Generally, the book was very entertaining, and while it had a few warts and freckles, it also had some refreshing and original elements.The characters Carson and Michael are pretty well drawn for what's essentially an action novel.  Carson begins to take on some depth as the story progresses -- I'm currently well into the second novel of the trilogy.  Michael's dialog is too "flip," and his snotty gibes are overdone.  Sometimes I wished I could take a blue editor's pencil to about half of his dialog.  It's more a matter of degree -- some of this is funny, some is witty.  There's just too much.Deucalion -- the original Frankenstein's monster -- is a very interesting and refreshing character.  As Koontz so aptly puts it, over two centuries the monster has become a man, and the man (Victor Frankenstein) has become a monster. The former Frankenstein's monster may emerge as the most interesting character in the trilogy.One of the most "fun" aspects of this book is its utter unpredictability.  At first one imagines one is reading some formula stuff-- just more of the same.  Then the strangest and most unexpected elements intrude.  The New Men (essentially all vat-borne monsters) manifest surprising flashes of compassion and humanity. Some of the humans begin to seem crude and barbarous.  Now a colossal monster akin to the "Dunwich Horror" of Lovecraft's is stirring in the landfill.  Now a monster is leaving his traces by devouring all the icecream in a home's refrigerator.  Now two hired killers sent on their kill mission by Victor are disintegrating because of a kind of psychosis, wherein the female monster is obsessed with having a baby -- although sterile.How can one sum up this quite remarkable book?  It is FUN.  It is sheer FUN to read.  I went through the first volume in two days, and upon my return to the bookstore, purchased vols 2 and 3 immediately, knowing I would be through the entire trilogy in a week.Along with with chilling elements of true "horror" -- and this is Koontz's forte -- we also have rich humor and some compassionate portrayals of a variety of human personages, not least, the autistic son of Carson's -- an unexpected element in this thriller, to be sure.As for Koontz, never count this guy out.  This is not a great novel.  It IS a great entertainment.  If you are set for a long airliner flight, this is the one you want.  Cheers!
2 I had waited and waited for Dean Koontz to finish the Frankenstein series.  I love the first two books and was more then a little disappointed at the resolution of the series. It all seemed to wrap up too simply, (deus ex machina ?), Deucalion role was secondary, and the final confrontation was.. not much of a confrontation at all..It felt to me like Dean Koontz just wanted to finish the series so people would stop bothering him about it but he didn't do the first two books justice. There was so much potential, so little realized.
2 After waiting for the 3rd book in Dean Koontz's Frankenstein Trilogy I was very disappointed in how over the top the story was. I love Dean's books but once in awhile he takes the weirdest just a little too far.You can tell at the end he's going to continue with this series. I hope the story gets back on track to the page turner the 1st and 2nd books were.
5 Very well written. Well connected to the other books in the series.I don't Need Eight more words! Stuff it!
3 If you think that this novel is awful, you are missing the point entirely.The entire series is refutation of Materialism and a response to the collected writings of C.S. Lewis.  How many "Lion, With, and the Wardrobe" references do you need to take the hint?Is the ending of this trilogy unsuccessful?  Yes it is.  The climax of the series is nothing more than a series of improbable events; an unbalanced sketch with obligatory Deus ex Mechanica.Still.  Wasn't this  obvious by Book 2?
4 After 4 long years I finally got my third Frankenstein! And thanks to a long trip to Ecuador, I was able to actually read it and the wait was worth it. In this book, you really see how Victors' monsters are starting to fall apart. In the center of book three are police detectives Carson O'Connor and Michael Maddison, which with their witty dialog help with the flow of the story; followed by Erika fives' developing relationship with Jocko, a troll like character that can be cute at times. Each of these characters have subplots, including Deucalion, but they all come together at the end. I must admit, I enjoyed it until its conclusion, where it seemed to end rather too quickly. I am looking forward to book Four - Lost Souls and sincerely hope it doesn't take another 4 years to come out.
5 "Dead and Alive" is my new number 1 favorite book!Book 1 in the Frankenstein series was the first Koontz book I was able to stay with through to the end.  Specifically, I came into this series not understanding why this author continuously receives so much praise for his work.Now I understand why.Books 1 and 2 held my interest, but Book 3 was unlike anything I have ever read.  Yes, it is strange, but Koontz does such a fine job of setting the foundation in Books 1 and 2 that the events of Book 3 did not appear as far fetched to me as they no doubt would have had I tried to read book 3 as a standalone novel (which I had contemplated before a friend talked me out of it).  And yet, I understand that for many Koontz fans, book 3 didn't meet their expectations.  Reading all three books back-to-back no doubt gave me an advantage as I didn't have time to ponder any unchartered territory that the author might pursue in the next installment.  I didn't have any expectations for an alternate ending.Koontz preserves what was foremost in Shelly's creation, humanity in a "monster" and the monster in humanity, allowing the later seed to flourish with the help of modern technology.An absolutely superb exploration of the human condition! And an equally superb handling of the fantasy-genre theme which explores the power of the universe to restore the balance of good in the face of evil.I am not usually a fan of horror fiction and I probably won't start reading the author's other works, but I did enjoy this series and recommend it to any non-Koontz fans who enjoy the frankenstein theme.
3 I wish that I had waited to buy the used paperback.  Not because the story "worked" for me, especially this final episode, but because once I start a series I hope that it gets better.  I expect to dissolve the links with reality with any DK anymore, but this entire story was just beyond belief.  It could have worked if the great build up resulted in a great explosion - the brother needing the protection of the monastery, the "house-friend" benefitting from leaving town, the use of the heavy duty ammo - but all of these just froth as we dealt with the froth of Ericka 5 and Jocko.But it lives on...did the garbage pit creatation die with the original Victor, is the "new" Victor as evil as the old Victor, or will he just go mad as did the creations - and if so, how long does it take to break down?  Or do those who are denied hope the only ones to break down?  Will Ericka 5 and Jocko take down Victor-2 in the days ahead...I forsee an equally bad fourth novel in about 10-15 years.DK take a long vacation; explore intellectually and physically.  Refresh yourself and come back in a year or two.  We can and will survive and will welcome you back with open arms.
2 Well here we are, the final part Book 3 is here.  Was it worth the wait - NOT REALLY.  I went back and re-read the first two in order to do Part 3 justice .  I spent the first few chapters of Part 3 with explainations concerning things from the first two books, this would not have been necessary if the trilogy had been completed in a timely manner.  Result - Boring.  I kept skipping parts - to me a sudden death for a book.  Parts seemed familiar to me, I kept thinking I had already read the story, knowing that I couldn't have - I have read a lot of Koontz's books.  Whatever his two collaborators on the first two books brought to the story was definitely missed on Part 3, its reminds me of "lets get it over with" and it did not complement Parts 1 & 2.  To me the trilogy is still unfinished and now never will be.
5 I like thinking about this series. It wasso imaginative. Taking the old Frankenstein modeland building on the kindness of the monster.The short chapters keep everything moving quickly.Koonntz brings his characters to life withcomic book charm. I particularity liked the superficialnessof the novel; it's fun, absorbing, and put a continualsmile on my face.
3 I happened across Dean Koontz's Frankenstein a little over two years ago, and it was glorious.  I'd been a fan for awhile, and it was my favorite thus far.  I immediately went out to purchase Prodigal Son and was completely enraptured by it.  Mr. Koontz was on fire!  As that book came to a close, however, and I realized that there was yet another installation to the series, I became frantic, unable to find it anywhere.  Finally, upon reading Mr. Koontz's site in early 2008, I was devastated to find that it had not yet even been finished, much less published.But like any loyal fan, I waited, and none too patiently, complaining to everyone I knew, whether a fan of Koontz's work or not, that I was afraid I'd never get to finish the story.  After all, Book 2 not only lacked an ending; it stopped at a turning point, a pinnacle in the tale that left readers thinking, "I MUST know, I have to have closure!"  So, when I happened to see the final installation displayed prominently at its release while browsing through my local Wal-mart, I jumped for joy and let out a loud "Whoop!" literally, gaining looks of concern from other shoppers.  It was six in the morning.  I explained that I'd been waiting for said volume for nearly two years in order to assure them that I wasn't crazy.To say that Dead and Alive is not incredibly imaginative would be an inaccurate and unfair statement; I'm sure that Mr. Koontz's imagination was working overtime in the production of this modern twist on a classic horror tale, one which he was probably aware was much anticipated.  However, the imaginative scenes that he seemed to have created in his head have not been well translated in writing, and too much is left up to the reader to create.Rather than convey on paper his own creative images regarding the horrors in which he has indulged to build Victor Frankenstein's world, he leaves much of the description to fancy.  Scenes that should be terrifying, nightmarish, and disgusting are more comical, and violence and gore are implied rather than described.  Having read a great many of his previous works, I know Mr. Koontz has an uncanny ability to demand a reader's vivid imagination picture a scene, but in this instance, he fails to do so.Perhaps one of the worst examples is when the replicant Janet Guitreaux is murdering the Bennets and the rage and destructive force used on Helene Bennet is simply described as "something more spectacular...than Bucky could have imagined."  Even saying "Janet was a runaway locomotive of rage, a log-cutting buzz saw of hatred, a jackhammer of envy-driven cruelty" does not entail any sort of explanation as to the creativity of the murder and does nothing to make the reader cringe at the thought of manufactured people gone haywire.I don't profess to live for gore, but if this is so spectacular, could we not have a small glimpse at the removal of Helene's eyeballs with Janet's tongue, or perhaps the clawing out of her heart with nothing but the fingernails?  If I can imagine such fanciful, disturbing things, certainly one of the greatest writers and producers of the embodiment of horror fiction could do so.Deucalion continues to be the most intriguing character in the tale, and detectives O'Connor and Maddison provide entertainment.  Victor Helios-Frankenstein's self-absorption and incredible ego grow to epic proportions and cause one's eyes to roll several times.  There is a tender moment that brought me to tears with Annunciata, and while somewhat annoying, the Harker-troll is also somewhat endearing and even fascinating, as Erika Five seems to agree.  Other characters are less awe inspiring.The first two volumes of the Frankenstein series were rich with anticipation and terror, which is why fans waited so long for this third and final episode to emerge without becoming violent in protest.  Is this book a sufficient conclusion to the series?  Does it wrap everything up in a nice bundle so that the reader has closure?  Questions are answered, the tale is capped, and while the resolution may not be what all readers hope for, Koontz packages the complete story and wraps it up with a pretty bow on top.However, as long as it took to produce this closing statement to what should have been a masterful work worthy of a television miniseries to rival the best Stephen King, it is clearly a disappointing finale to the saga and leaves faithful fans of Koontz with a bitter taste in their mouths, wondering if he's lost his touch, was exhausted with this particular story, or was just pressed too hard to get this book on the market.
4 Dean Koontz writes the kind of horror that will appeal to people who find Stephen King too much. Here we have a haunted house of Frankenstein with horror without being scary or even suspenseful. The tragedy in most of his many books, as well illustrated in this one, is a gifted imagination, wonderful characters, and highly readable style that somehow fails to achieve anything brilliant or even memorable. In fiction, quantity will never make up for a lack of quality. This work, and its two prequels, are a highly entertaining and clever modern continuation of Mary Shelly's original Frankenstein tale, this time set in pre-Katrina New Orleans. Koontz, however, is no Mary Shelly or Truman Capote. This final volume of the trilogy ties up loose ends but leaves the reader to wonder why some of the major characters were in the book at all and exactly what created the all too abrupt (even for Koontz) happy ending.
4 I started #5 accidentally so I started off confused. Needless to say once I was back in the right sequence I liked the book. It moved quickly and easy read that kept me wanting to read. Much like the Odd Thomas series. I'm sure you could read them individually but in the series I think they are better. I enjoyed the book.
2 I loved the first two but this final book of the series was clearly written just to be done with it. I got the feeling it was written bits at a time as a few things were redundant or was he just writing to meet a word count? Did his editors also just want to get it done?Koontz is beginning to slip as his recent books don't have the glued to your seat quality the earlier books do.I quit buying King when his books started to sound like a movie script rather than a novel.  I do want to mention his Duma Key is really good and more like the King I remember.  Hope Koontz gets his groove back soon.
2 I don't know...He's lost that edge he used to have, maybe he's cranking out to much product. For the last few years I've sensed an under-current of born again christian - anti-science/humanist running through everything. It smacks of the dogma I hear from the christian right movement, subtle, but it's there. Instead of telling a great monster story, he turned it into a morality play....preachy....he bores me....and that's sad cuz I've been reading him for about 20 years.
1 I love the beginning and middle of Koontz books.  However, he never fails to disappoint me on the endings.  It's as though he builds these perfect stories, then reaches a certain number of pages and decides to wrap things up with the standard "And they lived happily ever after the end."I hoped, after reading the first two books, that this trilogy would be better.  It isn't.  He has created this unfortunate combination of multiple points of view, dialogue that's suppposed to be funny but is just stupid and too long, and a direct rip off of Harry Potter's Dobby.I wish I had my time and memory cells back that I wasted on this.
3 I loved book two City of Night, so book three had a lot to live up to. I liked the story but it had that wrap up feeling to it. I prefer sequels to have a stand alone quality to them. That being said I felt it was good as an extension to book two. I like the message at the end of book three and I liked that Dean brought a signature animal character into the story.
5 Dean Koontz is one of my favorite authors and this book was in tru form for him.  Loved it from start to finish.
1 Forget Universal Health Care, forget Global Warming; what congress needs to do is pass a law making it a crime for big name authors and their publishers to put out crap just because they know loyal fans will buy it. For Stephen King a misdemeanor for the conclusion of `Dark Tower,' but Dean Koontz's conclusion to his `Frankenstein' series is a felony.As a back note I'm not a Koontz fan, but I read a piece about him writing a new take on `Frankenstein' as an idea for a TV series and that Martin Scorsese had attached his name to it. On that basis I bought the first of the series and liked it. Scorsese pulled out of the project and Koontz got into some sort of hassle with the TV producers. The book did appear briefly as a badly made pilot on cable but died there.But Koontz did write a very bad second installment. I bought that one and was really disappointed. The third was supposed to be out years ago, but I wasn't going to buy it anyway. But a friend of mine is a Koontz fan and loaned me this as an audio book.It is hard to know enough bad things to say about this that hasn't been said already. It is a truly dreadful book. Koontz makes no attempt to do anything but get it over with; there is no plot, no character, no nothing. The writing here is really, really bad. I lost track of the redundancies and pointless scenes. And on top of that Koontz has the gumption to set up a possible sequel!If for some reason you are reading this review before buying any of the series I strongly urge you to look for something else. The only way authors like Koontz and his publishers are going to stop this criminal behavior is if they stop making money at it!
3 I have to agree with most of the other reviews I have read. While this book was a decent read, it was not a good conclusion to the series, nor was it worth the 3 year wait we went through when Koontz kept pushing back the release of the the book. Back in 2005 I came across the first book by accident. I flew through both it and the sequel in no time flat. I was so happy to read in the back cover of "City of Night" that the final book was to be released in the summer of 2006. When it wasn't released, I contacted Koontz's official website and inquired about the delay. A week later I got a response in the form of a link to a page saying how it was being delayed a bit while he tries to finish it and the "delaying due to the hurricane." Three years later I contacted the same site again. You know what they told me? The same exact thing they told me 3 years earlier. So you can imagine how excited I was to finally find it on the shelf. Then came the let-down.I'm no expert story writer, but it seems to be that it would be a bad idea to try to introduce new characters and develop them in the last book of a series, especially when this final book is shorter than the previous installments, and yet here we have Jocko, his relationship with Erika, the junkyard creature, and the mysterious thing in the tank. I won't spoil what it is, but it doesn't get revealed until something like the last 5 pages of the book. It almost seems like Koontz went "oops! Forgot about that, how can I wrap this loose end up?" And what about the creature in the junkyard? In most of the Koontz books with weird creatures, the creature is given at least some sort of an explanation, but the only explanation Koontz gives for this one is "it's an experiment gone wrong." Huh? Jocko can see camouflaged things? What?And what about the main characters of the story? Where are they in all of this? Deucalion, who is the first person we meet in the series is mainly in the background for this story. He pops up here and there, but doesn't really do anything of importance. My memory could be wrong, but I think the detectives have a higher body count then he does, and I only remember them taking out 2 'people' in the whole book. Maddison and O'Connor, who spent a few chapters in the previous book acquiring new weapons for the upcoming battle against the new race, and they get in one fight in the whole book.I will admit that this book kept me spellbound. My wife and I do a lot of driving, and while she drives I read to her. I read the first two to her, and everyday on our way to work I read the last one to her. We hated having to put it down and go in to work. It is decently fast paced, and enchanting. But that is about it. Once I reached the end and said so, we both looked at each other, surprised and disappointed with abrupt ending. There really should have been more.This was a decent read, but for being on hold for at least 3 years from when it was supposed to be released, Dead and Alive was a let down. Dean Koontz should be ashamed of himself for turning this in for publication when he had 3 extra years. When I was in college if a professor extended a deadline he or she would expect a project or paper of quality. Not a rough draft.
3 At 352 pages, this was a much quicker read than the first two in the series that were each at about 450 pages.  It was also the most painful. This was originally supposed to be the end of a trilogy - and it indeed has a weak ending that gets wrapped up all pretty and nice in a matter of about 5 pages.  That's probably why Koontz added two more books to the series in an attempt to redeem himself.The book opens with the district attorney and his wife, both replacements from the New Race, going on a naked killing spree around their neighborhood.  Yes, it's as bizarre as it sounds.  Deucalion find his way into Victor's lab and learns about Victor's tank farms where he is going to mass produce New Race members.He contacts Carson and Michael and sends them to the farm, which is adjacent to the mass grave dump that played such a big part in Book 2. Sadly, our two detectives spend well over half the book just driving to the farm.  And once again, Deucalion falls out of the plot while he's off to the farm meeting the Dumpsters and old New Race members who have come back to life - including Erica Four.Warning: some may consider these spoilers coming up...The majority of the book follows Victor returning to the lab and confronting the Werner insect-panther thing.  Another creature is also introduced, called Chameleon. It's a strange bug-like killing machine blob that discusses itself by taking on the look of its surroundings, much like Predator.We learn that Victor was developing this creature to help kill off the Old Race.  Chameleon escapes the lab with Victor, who discovers Deucalion has activated the self-destruct mechanism and Hands of Mercy is about to blow up. He decides to drive to the tank farm.This plot line switches back and forth with Erica Five at home making friends with Jocko, the strange troll-like thing that had morphed out of Harker in the first book.  Jocko provides a lot of silly comedic relief.  Think Jar Jar Binks from Star Wars.  Jocko likes to dance and wants a funny hat.  Erica agrees to take care of him if he will read to her.  Victor contacts her and tells her she must pack up and come to the farm too.  She brings Jocko along, who actually wants to kill Victor.End of spoilers.By placing his characters in these "traveling" situations, Koontz leaves the reader waiting for everyone to get to their final destination so that the plot can finally continue.  With a good chunk of the middle of the book following Victor, Erica, and Jocko, all of the moral nuances and frightening scientific discoveries that laced the two previous books and gave them depth are lost.The humor is also over the top in this book with Jocko.  The troll truly serves his purpose, much like they do in other works of literature - which is even mentioned in the book. Even the Chameleon creature was interesting, but is approached in such an odd fashion and dismissed extremely quickly that you don't really get to see it reach its full potential.And when we finally (FINALLY!) reach what we hope will be a huge climatic ending, it continues to be a let down. There is one other piece of Erica Five's plot which allows an opening for the story to continue, but all of our other lead characters are literally given a two page "book report" like ending that made me want to throw the book across the room - and I probably would have if this had been the last book.Since the first two books in the series were originally cowritten with other authors, its obvious to see that Koontz was lost.  He tried new attempts with his characters but it just didn't work.  And since this is the shortest book in the series, I think he really just wanted to wrap it up and end the project - but when the reviews came in, he knew - like Victor - he needed redemption.  I am going to finish the series and read the next two books, but believe me when I say this one is the worst so far.
4 I've said it before and I'll say it again, a modern day Frankenstein in, and of itself is hard to resist.  This is definitly a series worth checking out.
4 Very well paced Christian Horror series starring Mary Shelley's character's of Frankenstein and his monster living in modern times.  Excellent summer reading because of it's fast pace.
1 I waited three years for this? What happened? I am totally heartbroken. The first two books were so good; I mean really really really good, I could hardly contain myself waiting for this book's release. Did Koontz just spit this out to appease his fans not caring what it contained? I was soooooo let down. I am a monstrously huge Dean Koontz fan and I have never been more disappointed with his work until I read Dead and Alive. I expected so much from this book and got nothing but a TIPPY-TOING, JUGGLING, SKIPPING, JUMPING, CART WHEELING, PIROUETTING, TOE SUCKING, BUG EATING, ALBINO, TROLL. What in the world was that all about? What about Deucalion, Carson, and Michael? The first two books primarily featured those three characters, but in this third and last installment they were hardly spoken of at all. And talk about a disappointing ending. I expected a huge battle or something close to it, but all I got was...Well it was all just way too easy. If anything ever deserved a rewrite it's Dead and Alive.
2 What the HELL happened? Where did the Koontz we all know and love go?Unfortunately... this make me REALLY worry what the third book of Christopher Snow is going to be like (IF he ever gets around to writing it)!! It has been so long I forget what was going on!!! That's ridiculous to start a series and then keep putting off finishing it FOR 11+ FRIGGIN' YEARS!!!!!!!Will that be another failed trilogy? After two great books about Snow.... is that going to turn out to be a waste of time too?I think he has succumbed to what James F. David did. Religion ruined his writing.I HATE writing bad reviews... but I have to be honest. It's not about the author, it's about the book.CONCENTRATE DEAN!! CONCENTRATE!!! MORE COFFEE, SEX, AND WHATEVER YOU NEED TO MAKE IT WORTHWHILE FOR YOUR FANS!!!
3 I truly enjoy Koontz, and have read nearly all of his works.  My one complaint, and it applies with this book, is that with all the wonderful character building, clever dialogues, and escalation of suspense, he sometimes leaves me wanting in a dramatic ending.  It's as if he has worn out his brain and the wonderful characters just fizzle to a conclusion.  Is his editor pressuring him to complete, and he gets in a hurry?  I want to be as thrilled with the ending as I am with the rest of the story.  I just read The Face, and felt the same disappointment in its end.  Is it just that he's done so much within the story there are just no more tricks in the hat?I did like this series, and even recommended it to others, so I still gave it 3 stars.
4 The New Race created by Victor Frankenstein are beginning to experience glitches. Some commit vicious murders while others experience hope and feel happiness. Deucalion, Carson and Michael seek to free New Orleans from Victor' s hold forever.
5 so I won't say much in the review other than this: this book was originally supposed to be out in 2006.  I had almost forgotten about the series until I re-discovered the first 2 books while unpacking from a move.  The 3rd book is great in my opinion and worth the wait.
4 This book in the series was awesome as well. I couldn't wait to see what happened in the last book. Sometimes Dean Koontz does a good job and sometimes...not so much. This book was a job well done.
5 Bought the first book and it was so good that I ordered the rest of the series...you will love it
3 I have heard a lot of negative reviews about this book but I had to take a shot on it.  I loved the first two books and just recently got the 3rd and 4th novel for Father's day.  So even though this book was not exactly getting the grades that the first two books were I decided to jump back into New Orleans and check and see what's going on.This novel is kind of a filler.  I don't know how else to describe it.  It feels like Koontz had a lot more ideas for books 4-6 but just kind of wanted to keep things a float for this one.  It almost made me wonder why he wrote the book in the first place.  Not much happens in this book.  Detectives Carson O'Connor and Michael Maddison along with Deucalion go... and do...well... actually... do absolutely nothing in this book.  They just kind of hang out waiting on something to happen.  Which is quiet a coincidence because that is exactly what the reader is doing too.I will say that the book still has the same great humor and characters that are in the first two novels.  Those two qualities are the only things that saved this novel from being an absolute turkey.  I find it hard to believe that you could actually skip this novel and go right to the fourth one but I will say that so very little happen in the novel I would't be surprised if you could do just that.  I rounded up to three stars but this is a **1/2 star (average) book at best.Grade: C
3 Dean Koontz is one of my favorite authors, but his recent output has been pretty uneven.  Nowhere is that more true than with his Frankenstein trilogy of books.  The first novel in the trilogy, PRODIGAL SON, was hugely enjoyable, a tightly written horror story filled with loads of suspense and humor.  The second entry, CITY OF NIGHT, was a pale imitation of the first, but was adequate enough.Inexplicably, Koontz waited four years to produce the final entry in the trilogy, DEAD AND ALIVE.  Of course, such a long delay raised the expectations for this novel exponentially.  Unfortunately, this rather short novel is only fair, and certainly not worth the long wait.DEAD AND ALIVE is by no means terrible -- it's actually pretty well written and contains a lot of interesting ideas.  Koontz is a highly imaginative writer and this book contains its share of mind-blowing moments.  But like a lot of Koontz's recent efforts, this book falls down in the plot department.  This book really just consists of a series of repetitive scenes that are only loosely connected with one another.  The end result is a book that lacks narrative drive.Koontz also goes overboard with his satirical tone in DEAD AND ALIVE.  The first book in the Frankenstein trilogy had its share of humor, but it was restrained enough to be believable.  In this novel, the joking is so excessive that it becomes difficult to take the storyline seriously.  I often found myself rolling my eyes at all the over-the-top silliness.In the end, DEAD AND ALIVE is okay, but like most reviewers I was ultimately disappointed.  Reportedly, Koontz is writing a new Frankenstein trilogy -- I hope he spends more time on developing a plot that can carry three whole books.
4 "Dead and Alive" by Dean Koontz is the third book in his Frankenstein series.  Set in New Orleans, Victor Helios (AKA Victor Frankenstein) is about to unleash his 'New Race' on the city, and their main purpose for existing is to kill out the old race of humans.Victor's first creation, now going by the name of Deucalion, has tracked down the old Master.  He works with two detectives to destroy Frankenstein's empire of doom, before it's too late.The characters show a deeper element of the story as they undergo a change their maker never intended. The cast includes new monsters that vary from beautiful human replicants to bizarre insect-like anomalies.  I especially like Erika Five and Jocko, but you'll have to read the book to see why.Koontz fans are going to love this book, and I'm eager to read the fourth in the series.
4 Maybe its because I have been waiting for this book for 4 years and thus expected too much, but it felt a little anti-climactic.  Most of the conflicts started in the first two books are resolved here, and the book was a fun read.  However, I still can't shake the feeling that Dean Koontz didn't have his heart in this one.
1 If, like me, you've been waiting years for this final sequel, you're in for a shock. Not only is there no prologue to get you up to date, you are required to rely on your memory from when you read the last two books:Dean Koontz's Frankenstein: Prodigal Son: A Novel,Dean Koontz's Frankenstein: City of Night: A Novel. In my case, that was four years ago.As others have stated, the book literally takes off where the second book ended, so no time has transpired. This flies in the face of Koontz's website posting that because of Hurricane Katrina, he had to rethink the book's location now that New Orleans had been decimated. At the time this didn't make any sense as the book takes place before Katrina, so I chalked it up to lack of interest on the author's part.The other problem with the book is the poor writing and the even poorer editing. This is a recurring theme with best-selling authors whereas editors simply rubber stamp their work and only look for obvious grammatical errors. Dead and Alive didn't even get that minimal treatment. Sentences ended with prepositions, ran on so long you had to re-read them twice, or nouns didn't match verbs. Even the characters seemed different from the previous two novels.Having stated publicly that Koontz doesn't play well with others, he tackled this third novel without the help of a secondary writer. The first two were written by him and one other person. How much of that other person's writing was exorcised by Koontz in place of his own will forever remain under any NDAs.Normally I like to lend my friends any good books I've read, but this one is so bad I was tempted to throw it out. On a lark, I lent it to a friend who had read the previous novels just to get his opinion. He was very displeased and thought I was cruel for making him suffer for three nights while he stumbled through it.The book is a stinker and Koontz obviously did it for the money. That, or he hired some intern who also signed an NDA just so people like me would stop pestering him at his website about when the final book would be ready. Now I wish he'd never written it. It's quite possibly the worst novel I've read in my life, and that's saying something about its quality.Don't buy this book and reward the author with your hard-earned money. They only see the light when it hits them in the wallet.
3 they were right.  The first two books were awesome but the last one was a disappointment.  Jocko?  Really a troll?  and the ending with everyone happily living after?  I actually don't mind happy endings but come on, this it's Koontz.  I had to finish the series though, otherwise it would've burned in me as not knowing how it ends.  I hope the next Koontz is better.
3 I read the whole series and found it to be a good night time read and would recommend it to a friend but not if they had to buy the books new.
2 So long in waiting.It was my hope that Dean Koontz would go back to horror. It seems that ever since One Door Away from Heaven he's been on sappy, preachy mode, with paper-thin villains who have become ridiculous caricatures, Deus Ex Machina endings, and the exaltation of golden retrievers and autistic people to angelic god-like beings.Readers will be sorely disappointed when the New Race do not make their move to conquer mankind and go on killing sprees in Hurricane Katrina-flooded New Orleans, but we do get 100 pages(!) of two nude people chasing a dog and chanting "Dog...Dog."It was established in earlier books, the New Race couldn't kill without a direct order, but they do it anyway because Dean Koontz was too lazy to write around it.Meanwhile Doctor Frankenstein has been reduced to a strawman atheist/bio-ethicist/sociopath/Dean Koontz's father, upon which the author can heap some more punishment because he just can't get past his childhood issues.Finally ending in the most blatant Deus Ex Machina ending I've ever seen. SPOILER. The corpses of the New Race JUST HAPPENED to merge together into some kind of god-being, who JUST HAPPENED to have psychic powers, JUST HAPPENED to share the protagonists goals to a T, and so forth.So the Deus Ex Machina beast cures the New Race of their evil tendencies and loyalties (WHICH WERE INGRAINED IN THEM), and allows them to make a poetic revenge on the good doctor.He might as well have said that God came down and magically fixed all the problems, and oh but spared the only two deserving characters without explanation (Jocko and Ericka).END SPOILER.And then manages to plagiarize himself by ripping off the ending of Midnight. And looking back on the book, our heroes don't have to anything. The Deus Ex Machina took care of everything.I would have given this 1 and a half star, but at least some of the details of Helios' secret empire were still interesting and the reveal at the end of what was in the jar was not terribly imaginative, but at least was trying to make Helios more competent and foresighted as a villain.SPOILERThough knowing how the rest of the novel was just a disappointment, and its villains became so incompetent and humiliated, I'm guessing that the clone of Helios will drive away from the exploding mansion only to crash into a tree and hit his head, losing his memory in the process, and ends up being adopted by Erika, and eats soap with Jocko while making baby noises and wearing diapers.Now THAT's an ending that would fit right in with all the other disappointments in what could have been an awesome conclusion.END SPOILER.
3 I've enjoyed the series but I'm ready to move on to something else...don't know where else this could possibly go.
2 1 AND 1/2 STARSI'm not sure how to explain the drastic change in quality from the previous two books to this one.  Perhaps Koontz's partnership with co-writers Kevin Anderson and Ed Gorman were inspired collaborations and when faced with finishing the series alone with this third book, Koontz simply had no one to bounce ideas off of.  Maybe he let Anderson and Gorman write the bulk of the first two and was not very familiar with the chararacters.  Whatever unfortunate circumstances occurred, it was a grand failure, the likes of which I've rarely experienced with an author of such prominence.The lead detectives and Deucalion from the previous books are barely in the story and many of the character traits of the others feel very different, as if Koontz had not reviewed the prior books when sitting down to write this.  Jocko's character was reduced to absurd comic relief and Helios a vein, whinny spoiled brat -- both very annoying to read.  Any suspense, atmosphere, or real danger that was built up in the first two books completely dissipated with this entry.  I'm not accusing Koontz of using a ghostwriter, but if this was really his work, he better get his act together if he wants to keep any sort of fan base.  He'll need to do something quite remarkable if he wants to make up for this atrocity.
4 I love this treatment of the Frankenstein myth, and despite some of the carping whiners who have nothing better to do than smack a genius, I loved book three. Sure, it is a culmination volume, and sure the detectives are still there, but if they weren't there would be nobody of the old race in the story except Victor, and where would that leave us? The troll and Erika make a great tag team, and the tension generated by the escape of the Chameleon is superb.What's even better ... there could be a volume four that takes us to a whole new level.
2 I was expecting a humorous juicy story about the goings-on of a Manhattan call girl but that's not what this book is about. Instead I got a tale of an engaged prostitute, Nancy, who isn't sure if she wants to get married and let go of her call girl life style.Her future sister-in-law constantly pesters her about her wedding plans and she never says or does anything about it. She's also a district attorney who might be after Nancy. We never really know. Her future brother-in-law may or may not be having an affair with one of her escort friends. We never really know what happens with that relationship either. And the climax of the story happens when there are only five pages left in the book and as a result the plot resolution is really lame. Also this novel is supposed to read like a diary, but who puts detailed dialogue in their journal entries?
2 The book started off good but I was disappointed at the abrupt ending. I'm sure being a call girl is not all fun. I was expecting to read about the good AND bad experiences with johns. The book was also fairy-talish to me.
2 This book is as brainless as "Sex and the City."  I certainly wish that I didn't get the book from [...], I could have checked it out from the library.  The novel is written by a former call girl.  The main character, Nancy, has a finace that knows nothing of her being a call girl.  I find that repulsive.  She sleeps with loads of men for money while at the same time pretends to be true to her fiance. I am not speaking against the occupation of a call girl so much as to her keeping it a secret from her fiance.
3 Interesting enough that I could continue to read if I had time but easily able to put it down. Fun little insights into the industry and definitely more chicklit than erotic. If you miss this one, you're not missing much. I probably won't read Diary of a Married Call Girl.
1 Cold, clinical descriptions of sex...Hooker chic at its worst....
4 If you're looking for a light but titillating read, then this is the book for you. It explores the hidden world of callgirls, and isn't afraid use racy dialogue and vocabulary, or explicitly describe the goings-on behind closed doors.A Quick re-cap of the novel: Nancy is a 30-something callgirl who not only loves her job, but has aspired to be a prostitute since she was 10 (a little strange and far-fetched, but still fun). The book opens with Nancy performing a threesome on a client with her friend Allison, which immediately draws you into her world of sex. Nancy is also recently engaged to a handsome and loving "up-and-comer" in the banking biz who has no idea that his fiance gets paid to have sex. He thinks she's a copy-editor. The book storms through much drama as Nancy struggles with her desire to continue her callgirl exploits, and her desire to marry Matt and become the respectable wife she knows he deserves. She also has serious trouble with Matt's nosy sister, and her friend Allison's irresponsible ways.A Few Flaws...SPOILER ALERT!While I feel the book is overall very entertaining, there were a couple things that bothered me. One of them is Nancy's friend Allison. Allison, while her heart may be in the right place, causes trouble and grief for Nancy, and generally becomes an extrememly annoying character.Also, there was a bit of a problem with proper closure at the end of the book. It felt a little like towards the end the action was moving along pretty well and then suddenly...the book was done. There were a few key plot-points that were never properly explored or explained. Such as, does Matt's sister, Elspeth, know about Nancy's true vocation? Why didn't Nancy ever confront Jason (Elspeth's husband, and her future brother-in-law by marriage) when she discovered he was sneaking around and seeing Allison behind his wife's back? (allegedly she didn't push the subject because she didn't want it to draw attention to her own life as a callgirl, but I feel there still couldn't have been some better closure on the subject). And finally, why wasn't the issue of Nancy's desire to be honest with her fiance Matt ever resolved? I expected her to eventually come clean and tell him about being a callgirl...but it just never happened, even though the idea was toyed with throughout the whole book.However, the reason I gave this book 4 stars, despite its flaws, is because of it's brazen ability to bring the world of sex to light. In a country that was founded by prudes, we sometimes forget that sex, and the desire to have and enjoy sex is a natural and healthy thing. I'm not advocating prostitution, by any means, but I do want to applaud this books healthy acceptance of sex and desire. Nancy may have some problems, but at least she's very clear on her ideas of sexuality and its place in our world.
4 For endurance, look to Tracy Quan. Hers is a voice that we will surely hear more from, as she catapults toward the writer of distinction she is and will be. This is a great novel that takes a realistic look into the life of Manhattan call girls. There is no plot development in this book, just a day to day take in Nancy Chan's life. The best part of this book is that it gives the reader a glimpse into the world of call girls without adding dark language or explicit scenes for shock value. Also, this novel isn't about Asian call girls, as one critic implied, but about the unconventional career choice of the protagonist and her cronies. Quan humanizes this "profession" without using the cliches that society place upon it. Quan's dialogue is crisp, funny and insightful, and I laughed out loud several times, seemingly from out of nowhere. I've heard that this novel is ninety percent autobiographical. In that case, I applaud Ms. Quan for baring the truths about one of the biggest taboo subjects out there.
5 In her first novel, Tracy Quan, a former call girl in one of the most glamourized cities in the world, gives us the insider's view of her oft-glamourized, often derided former profession--the world's oldest.The characters seemed like SUCH real people to me. Even the relatively boring and seemingly hum-drum johns and working girls were fun and interesting to read about. Tracy has a gift for bringing out the most fun and interesting parts of the lives and personalities of everyday people.I felt like the ultimate voyeur..into a world of kink, fun, power, high-finance, and...practical lingerie.I felt like I got to know the author personally...and ...felt like I got a bit of the call-girl experience myself...though I'm nowhere near as beautiful as the author is in her publicity photo.In short...if you'd like to get a dangerous, yet safe glimpse at &quot;the life&quot;...this is the ONLY way to do it.Let Tracy Quan be your guide. You'll love every page..and, you'll be left breathless with anticipation for the next Nancy Chan book.
3 The first half of the book keep me reading into the night. It started out with a threesome, who wouldn't be interested in that? Nancy and her female friend "fake it" with each other at the expense of their male companion. He, of course doesn't know. She would do it "for real," but why would you need to? The average john has no idea.We are then swept into the life of call-girls, their friends, and their shopping woes. Nancy has wanted to be a call-girl from the age of 10. First, a librarian, then a playboy centerfold, then a call girl. She ran away at 13 and lived with a strange boyfriend in London a year later, who used to lock himself (and sometimes Nancy) in a room with splitting headaches. Her history, her experiences, all of this was interesting.Until...The book started to take a different turn. She became very interested and obsessed with the lifeof her friend Allison. Why is Allison getting involved in this political thing for call girls? Why is Allison seeing Jack (a man we do not speak of anymore) on a regular basis? Why he is he paying for her education? All of a sudden, it wasn't about Nancy and her lifestyle anymore. The love scenes turned from juicy to ----wait, what happened? They were getting undressed, and now they are getting dressed?It was interesting that she was trying to hide her profession from her fiance and she felt pressured to marry him. How would she have her "dates" with her husband that didn't know about it. He thought she was a copy editor. I thought it was a little bit unbelieveable because what kind of person has no idea where you work or has never been there? I just don't think it's easy to keep secrets when you are going to marry the guy.Started out hot, then fizzled slightly.
1 Seeing such an exciting title made me grab it off the shelf. 'Bridget Jones with attitude' indeed. It started well but wasn't really written in Diary form- anymore than practically any story written in the first person is a diary. You get the occasional start of a chapter like 'Wednesday Morning 20th' but what follows is first person prose. From the first it grips you for a few pages with tales of our heroine and a friend on a job with a 'John'. But it just seems to go nowhere and the little amount of porn in it becomes boring, just like most porn. The book obviously has the selling point and so they make the quick buck but in the long term I don't think books like this are good for the industry. If someone buys it to read on a flight or a train journey, next time they'll take a gameboy instead. I found the premise of a girl wanting to be a callgirl from the age of fourteen unbelievable. The author tries to make it work but it didn't for me. I understand that most girls get into this via drugs or poverty or abuse and part of me found this rose-tinted picture the authoress was painting a little offensive. I think there's so much suffering in the world of prostitution but you don't see it here. The only downside is the narrator worrying if her straight boyfriend will find out. There's no drugs, no pimps, no really dodgy clients, everything's just fine. The other characters all seemed like caricatures - you know, there's the mad one, the prim one, the matriarchal Madame. Well, at least they got my money from me- well done to them for that!
4 Nancy Chan, whiny, self-centered prostitute, hides her profession from her "straight" fiance while obsessing over things like...recycling her garbage.  I have to admit I was howling with laughter as I read Nancy's system, and the logic behind it, for sorting and disposing of her trash.  Nevermind the dirty talk, this book gets four stars for the garbage talk!
2 When I picked up this book I didn't realize that it was a thinly fictionalized autobiographical novel, but I'm not surprised... as in many autobiographical fictions, central character explorations are missing.  The main one here is the author's assumption that the narrator, Nancy, is a normal girl from the suburbs who happened to have becoming a prostitute as her life's ambition.  The book presents this matter-of-factly... first she wanted to be a librarian, then a centerfold, then a prostitute.  The first two are normal enough, but the third...?Though it is fascinating to read about the details of Nancy's work-life (much of the work is faked, as it would be in exotic dance), the book assumes that being a call-girl is a cushy job.  The normalcy of the "nice girls" who enter into it is taken for granted... consider Allison, who has a BA in Art History.  Nancy views her leaving a job as a shop assistant to become a call girl as a step up, and Allison seems to view it the same way.  Who ARE these people?The other thing the book never recovers from is the glossed-over revelation that Nancy ran away at age 14.  So apparently she's a high-school drop out who's been a hooker for over ten years... successfully faking out her boyfriend that she's a copy editor, successfully faking out her family.  Is everyone in her universe that stupid?So for most readers-- likely to be college-educated magazine-reading Sex-and-the-City watching single women-- the central character is both recognizable (where she shops, details of her day) and completely alien.I (a college-educated etc. etc.) found it impossible to relate to-- or worse, even believe in-- Nancy's decision over whether to keep hooking or marry her unbelievably sweet and loyal boyfriend.  How did she meet Matt?  What does he see in her?At best, Nancy is a woman whose self-esteem depends entirely on admiration from men, which she gets via prostitution (which doesn't always even include the sex act).  She's functional, but who is she?  Even she doesn't really know, she leads so many different lives.  And since the main energy of her life goes into herself-- we never see her expressing a selfless emotion for anyone-- it's hard to view her as anything but a shallow narcissist, let alone pity her.The blurbs on the book present it as funny, but really it's sad, though it thinks it's smart.  Two stars for sheer fascination.
3 It was well done, not my usual read but went along quite well. I enjoyed it.. Would recommend it to anyone who likes a good cops and robbers type read... Not that this is, but still the same area of interest
2 At the finish of this book, the reader is left hanging to wonder in anti-climactic annoyance about too many things. Among the many unanswered questions in this book is one particularly annoying question because it is so steadily built up, then left frustratingly unanswered: why is Nancy's district attorney sister-in-law constantly plying her with double-entendre questions & suspicious comments about Nancy's career? Does the D.A. sis-in-law know something? Too, the last chapter jumps 8 mos. leaving a multitude of unanswered questions! Ridiculous!!
2 The exploits of a Manhattan Call Girl are mildly entertaining, and as someone who loves reading about life in the fast lane, I enjoyed the "insight" into the real life of high-end escorts:  the protocols of work, the nitty-gritty of the transactions, the interactions and relationship with the madams, the hierarchy of different types of sex workers, and so on.  Beyond the cheap thrill, though, the overall plot was lacking.It seemed as if Quan wanted to interject some modern pro-legal-prostitution politics and advocacy in her book, but she picked the annoying medium of hanger-on Allison to do so.  I couldn't imagine why our heroine would even tolerate talking to this girl Allison, she was so annoying.Don't even get me started on the subject of Nancy's engagement to her long-term boyfriend, who is clueless about her career as a call girl, and regularly has sex with her just minutes after she has been with a client.  What is this marriage going to be based on?  This is nowhere near acceptable in chick lit!Throughout the book, I kept expecting a twist to change my feelings about the direction of the plot, but none came.  When I first read this book, it was called a "Nancy Chan novel," which hinted at a series.  I see now that there is a follow-up book.  No thanks, I'll pass on that.
3 I found "Diary of a Manhattan Call Girl" refreshingly different, funny, and a page-turner.  There definitely seems to be a voyeuristic thrill in seeing how these women deal with "the oldest profession," even if it's the upper echelon.Tracy Quan seems to refuse to stigmatize hookers, and her Nancy Chan character steadfastly seems to have no moral qualms about her career choice.  This didn't ring totally true for me.  Nancy does agonize over whether her boyfriend/fiance will find out, what he will think, etc., but doesn't take on some of the larger issues such as, is it really OK to be a married hooker, especially if your husband doesn't know?  Is it OK for a husband or boyfriend to see hookers, then, or would that bother her? What about the times she just doesn't, well, feel like it..does that feel like betraying herself?  Or how does it feel to be totally disgusted by a john?  That doesn't seem to happen here.But, I don't think this book was meant to be a morality play, so I tried to just enjoy it for what it is..a chance to be a fly on the walls of these women in the pricey world of call girls (hookers/whores, what have you; Quan explores most of the nicknames).Nancy Chan is a well-read, intelligent "girl" who chose to be a hooker (even knew at age 10 what she wanted to do!), and another call girl character is college-educated, so I found it interesting to see some stereotypes challenged.Also it's illuminating to see the whys (hows?) of some of these men who choose to see hookers.I found the nosey, caustic sister-in-law -- "Elspeth" -- character among the most amusing, and the blonde airheady character Allison offers more comic relief...and Quan's writing is talented and witty...I just don't know if it's the whole story.Julia Wilkinson, author, "My Life at AOL" and "Best Bang for Your Book"
3 It wasn't too bad - I mean, it was fluff, of course, but quite enjoyable fluff - till her &#34;computer crashed&#34; right before the climax. What an incredibly cheap cop out of an ending. I'd already gotten gifted the sequel from a used book store, which is why I bought this in the first place. So I already knew that she was going to end up married, but... how???
1 This book was boring and not as good as the other hooker books. I thought it would be juicy it was too boring for my taste. Don't buy, save your money.
3 That's about the only conclusion that I could come to after reading this work.There were a few problems, mainly with plausibility. For instance: How much of this is really true, knowing her penchant to  bend reality? On more than one occasion, she described herself trying to decide which version of the truth to tell her boyfriend.  I'm sure that she took a lot more artistic license with readers than she would have us believe. Are there really *so* many people who would pay *so* much for sex that she could make a living by being a call girl who only accepts referrals?Another: Did anyone get the feeling that she was a bit....... whiny? Bursting into tears in the psychiatrist's chair? Bursting into tears with her boyfriend over this or that?Lastly: I've been in the mental health game for a while and know that Quan was rather selective in revealing details of her relationship with her therapist. What was she diagnosed with? I happen to know that psychiatrists DON'T spend that much time listening to a patient muse about this and that problem/ dark desire.  They want to find out what are the symptoms, medicate them, and then get you OUT of there.  Most visits last about 15 minutes-- if that. Her mention of either any medication regimen or a diagnosis are conspicuously absent, given the level of detail that she included in other aspects.The writing itself was pretty decent.  But the book didn't stand the test of plausibility. At least not from the perspective of a mental health patient.  This view has been echoed on here by reviewers who have worked in the sex industry and found this piece a bit..... inconsistent.
5 Quan's character-driven story of a pricey call girl stewing over both important life decisions and day-to-day trivia was fascinating to me because she and I have both worked in the same profession but have had such very different experiences. Where my work has mainly been &quot;small town,&quot; Quan has worked as an upscale, uptown, chic and elite call girl. Quan's writing has been eye-opening for me because she shows another way of approaching the work -- another life altogether.But this isn't just a book about escorting and escorts and it's appeal is much broader than self-referential reading for other sex workers. This is a book about life, choices, fears and successes that everyone has in one form or another. More than describing the life of a call girl, Quan is describing the life of a Manhattanite. Stand aside, Seinfeld; step back, Sex and the City -- Nancy Chan owns New York!The characters are absolutely fascinating; I devoured this book. I've got my fingers crossed for a sequel -- I want more!
3 The blurb makes the book out to be a totally different book than what I read. It starts off with a threesome, where the girl-on-girl is mostly faked, and it has some interesting revelations about a call girls life, but that's about it.I have to say I found most of the characters in it extremely irritating, especially the lead character, and the character of Allison. They were so selfish, and self absorbed. And all the talk of call girls and what they do with their clients came across as very cold feeling, there was nothing sexy about it at all.For a semi-autobiographical novel, it comes across as very confusing at times, especially with the dates at the top, and how no one seems to realise what she really does. It would be impossible to keep something like that secret, but it is touched upon on the book, but never really resolved.In fact, the book just ends, about a year, after it first started. It just ends. Nothing's resolved, she's still a call girl, she's married, and it just ends. After reading, you feel a little bit like "why did I read all that?" If you're reading, and you're about three-quarters through, just stop reading. You won't feel any different whether you read it right to the end or not.
1 Quan's glamorized narrative obscures her poisonous ideology of yuppie materialism and "I got mine" right-libertarianism.  Her tale is interesting enough, but Quan and her characters are no more worthy of emulation than the money-grubbing corporate sharks she serviced on her way to the top.  Enjoy "Diary" as escapist diversion, but please don't make the mistake of buying into the right-wing propoganda of its author.
4 The book's structure feels like a bunch of columns loosely linked together...which I think it might be.  And that can make for frustrating reading.  But the world of the book is so wild and the author combines the professional outlandishness of a call girl with the mundane parts of everyday life so well, that it makes for an entertaining read.
2 Well, the title and all the editors' reviews made me buy this book without hesitation. But now I know better. This book offers very few insights into the world of prostitution and sex industry. Some stories on the side are very uninteresting. And it keeps the climax building it and when it's time to reveal it, it's wrapped quickly in the last two pages leaving sooo many important questions unanswered. So basically what is written is not as important as what should have been written. I don't recommend.
3 When I began the book, I was intrigued.  This was chick lit with attitude.  The main character, Nancy, is a quirky, funny and mostly-unapologetic Call Girl who is balancing her chosen vocation with her unknowing fiance and upcoming nuptuals.The majority of the characters were well-drawn and vivid and Nancy was surprisingly complex.However, while I enjoyed most of the book, there were too many questions left unanswered in the end and too many easy ways out.  The only true surprise was how many story lines were left dangling in the end.It's worth the read and I did enjoy it, but I was far too disappointed by the end of the book to truly recommend it.As a final note, the language and situations in the book might be too frank and graphic for some readers.  Take the title seriously.  This is the Diary of a Manhattan Call Girl with all that entails.  However, for those of you looking for something more erotic, you might want to take care as well.  These descriptions, while graphic, are somewhat quick and perfunctory.  The narrator's jaded tone comes through loud and clear.
4 This book started out a little slow but after a few pages into the book it was impossible to put down.  I don't know if it's the way Tracy Quan writes or if it's simply the interesting subject matter but I finished the book in a few days.  Along with interesting characters and storylines Quan offers interesting wisdom along the way.I would certainly recommend this book for anyone who's interested in human nature and interpersonal relationships, not to mention the insights about human sexuality and relationships.
3 This book is a mix between an unapologetic tell all & a murky fiction novel. The reader will surely come to their % estimates at the end of their read. It came across throughout as an X-rated {but none too graphic}version of "the Princess Diaries." The format, plot, journal entries, romantic complications, & truly crazy friends are all present. However, they were poorly developed. The sex trade was treated as casually as breathing. But, the Psychology behind it was the most poignant part of the book.The author only developed the main character of Nancy. Everyone else came across as one dimensional distractions. She goes from being a 14 year old London bar girl to a high end Manhattan call girl. She spends most of the book working for an an association of sex workers to empower them. Her fiancee is a clueless up & coming Wall street guy. His character was the least developed. Her clients were far more interesting & cohesively explained.The ending was choppy, Tracy Quan either ran out of ideas or got lazy? It is worth a read for the psychology behind the sex trade, otherwise it was lacking. I recommend you get it from the library, rather than buy it.
1 This was by far one of the worst books I've ever read. Who in the world dreams of becoming a hooker? And who in the world is a hooker while they are engaged to an amazing man, and continues being a call girl even after she gets married? This is one of those books, that as an author, has you fuming that it ever got published in the first place. Tracy Quan must be sleeping her way through agents and publishers, because this was the most stupidest story ever written!
5 Funny , interesting easy to read and lots of good lessons ho to handle the man of your life :)
2 RE: AUDIO CASSETTE VERSION. In this Cold War curiosity, the Catholic cardinal of a Russian puppet state must balance the forces of the secret police on the one hand and the &quot;patriotic clergy&quot; on the other, while struggling to maintain his own link with God. The character study of the hero is strong enough that the reader may be carried well into the tale before realizing that nothing much actually happens. The baddies are not ruthless enough and the promised action is never delivered so that ultimately the story is as gray and drab as everyday life may have been in such a place.
3 I found this novel to be a consistently interesting page turner.Yet, I understand  the somewhat mixed reviews.The novel never digs that deep.That could be seen as a problem given its subject matter.COLOR is set in a country that can only be Poland.Although Moore  goes out of his way to tell you it isn't Poland.This is understandable .I don't think Moore was trying to write a novel about Poland and undoubtedly didn't want to deal with pedantic criticisms to the effect that he'd inaccurately rendered details of Polish history and politics.The novel centers around Cardinal Bem who has managed to negotiate a fairly comfortable relationship with the Communist government.More militant elements in the Church want to pursue a confrontation with the government which Bem assumes will be disastrous .Bem is a classical moderate in a situation where moderates aren't popular.In effect the militants try to stage a coup within the Church in order to pursue their policy of confrontation.This leads to a series of events culminating in a dramatic ending.Moore's pacing is excellent and I was genuinely interested to find out what would happen next.Still , I  will acknowledge that there is a certain superficiality here.You never really get a sense of what drives the characters nor what's at stake.Also the villains are a little cartoonish.Minor criticism of a book that is an intelligent , engrossing entertainment.
1 "The Colour of Blood" is set in an unnamed, fictitious Eastern European country during the 1980s. (References in the text date the action to late August and early September of 1986). At least, the country is ostensibly fictitious, but there can be little doubt that Brian Moore had Poland in mind; the country is predominantly Catholic, has a strong, independent trade union movement on the lines of Solidarity and power lies, not with the civilian Communist Party leaders but with a military dictator reminiscent of General Jaruzelski. To make it even more obvious which country he is referring to, Moore gives his hero the surname Bem (after the Polish national hero Jozef Bem) and his military strongman the surname Urban; Jaruzelski's propaganda minister was named Jerzy Urban.After Cardinal Stephen Bem, the head of the Roman Catholic Church in this country, narrowly survives an assassination attempt, he is taken into what is described as "protective custody" by men claiming to belong to the Security Services. He discovers, however, that his captors are not what they seem, but are in reality members of a fanatical anti-Communist movement within the Church, who despise Bem because they seem him as a traitor and a collaborator with the regime. Their aim is to prevent him from attending a forthcoming religious celebration in which a more radical Archbishop intends to call for protests and demonstrations against the Government. Escaping from his captors, Bem has to make his way to the celebrations to ensure that his own call for peaceful co-existence can be heard.Moore is sometimes bracketed together with Graham Greene as a "Catholic novelist", but there was an important difference between them. Greene was brought up as an Anglican but converted to Catholicism as a young man. Moore was a "cradle Catholic" who lost his faith but who nevertheless continued to deal with Catholic themes. "The Colour of Blood" reminded me in some respects of Green's writings. Like some of Greene's novels it is in form a political thriller, but a thriller which attempts to deal with religious and philosophical issues. There are similarities with Greene's "The Power and the Glory", another novel about a Catholic clergyman confronted with a dictatorial, anti-religious regime.Nevertheless, I felt that "The Colour of Blood" did not work either as a thriller or as an exploration of politics and religion. On a purely technical level, I found it dull and pedestrian, a thriller which fails to thrill. On a more serious level I found it dispiriting and politically objectionable. I do not mean by this that Moore is an apologist for Communism; no Marxist novelist wishing to make propaganda for his particular creed would be likely to set one of his novels in a thinly-fictionalised version of Jaruzelski's Poland, a regime which abandoned the last vestiges of the pretence that Communism was a dictatorship of the proletariat rather than a dictatorship pure and simple. Although Jaruzelski was ostensibly a Communist, his real ideology was a jackbooted, parade-ground authoritarianism, virtually indistinguishable from that of his ostensibly capitalist contemporaries such as Pinochet and Galtieri.Moore's political creed, as expressed through his main character Bem, amounts to a sort of passive fatalism, a belief that God is on the side of the big battalions and that the little man, if he knows what is good for him, will not challenge their divine right to rule. What makes it so depressing is that Bem opposes not only violent resistance to the regime- Christian pacifism has a long and honourable history- but also any form of non-violent protest. Just two years after this book was written in 1987 the falsity of that creed was exposed when all over Eastern Europe- not just in Poland but also in Hungary, East Germany, Czechoslovakia and Rumania- the little men stood up against their oppressors. The Berlin Wall fell and Communism found itself in that dustbin of history it had long predicted would be the resting-place of all opposing ideologies. This book should join it there.
3 The Colour of Blood is a tight, page-turning Catholic thriller in the Graham Greene tradition. The opening sequence hits the ground running: Cardinal Bem, head of the Church in an unnamed Soviet bloc country, is being chauffered back to his residence when "he saw, peripherally, a black car racing very close to his. He turned to look. The driver, a woman, wore a green silk scarf tied around her head. Beside her in the passenger seat, a bearded man, holding a revolver in both hands, raised it, aiming at him."That's just the first page. The rest of the book follows the Cardinal as he flees from unknown captors and attempts to discover what organization was behind the assassination attempt--the Secret Police, who are antagonistic to the Church, or could it have been a fringe organization within the Church, who feel that Cardinal Bem has compromised too often with the Communist government?Brian Moore's writing has textbook clarity: limpid, economical, and unfussy. "The Colour of Blood" was short-listed for the prestigious Booker Prize in the U.K, and was awarded the Sunday Express' Book of the Year. Though it drags in a few spots, and the ending (as another reviewer noted) is somewhat anticlimactic, on the whole the novel is well-crafted, suspenseful, and deeply orthodox. As an exemplar of smart genre writing, "The Colour of Blood" could take pride of place next to a Graham Greene thriller.
5 Though he is a cardinal, Bem has successfully managed to avoid the sin of pride, and is attempting to do the will of his god, within his church. Surrounded by gentle and religious people, immersed in the day-to-day  details of his regime, he is totally unprepared for the sudden intrusion of  personal violence in his life. An attempt is made on his life, followed by  his kidnapping and incarceration. Suddenly, he finds himself struggling  against hidden enemies, and struggling to find and feel the will of his  god.This is perhaps the most taut and action-packed of any Brian Moore  novels. Right down to the last word, this book will keep you riveted and  straining. And in Cardinal Bem, Moore has perhaps created one of his most  simply admirable and likeable protagonists ever. But he lacks none of the  inner honesty and complexity that mark Moore's protagonists. In addition to  being an incredibly suspenseful thriller, the book is as emotive and  thought-provoking as anyone could ask. It is a beauty.
5 Very touching true story of  an impoverished family living in America and Ireland in the 1930's.  I also watched the movie and enjoyed that as well.
5 This memior is very moving and emotional. The story of a young Irish boy growing up in a poverty struck area in Ireland.  Malachey the father is a full blown alcholic and spend every cent he makes on beer while his children starve and die.  This impacts the family in such a very harsh way.  Franks mother Angela just sit back and bascially does absoloutlly nothing except complain about her husbands problem.  Frank is the only bright light in his family it is intresting how he overcomes hardships and grows up to become a man.
4 Insightful read into the reasons and struggles of poverty and the possible ways out of it. A beautiful treatise about what it means to be human.
5 Frank McCourt's memories of his early childhood in NY and then eventually moving and growing up in Limerick, Ireland was something I truly enjoyed reading. The movie which I saw after reading this book did not have the heart the book had. Although McCourt grew up very poor, with an alcholic father who eventually abandoned the family, and a mother who tried her best, it was written and told very honestly and to the point without an ounce of self-pity, with such heart, nostalgia and care that even the nastiest of characters didn't seem all that nasty. I don't really know how to explain it but it was clear to me that though McCourt certainly had a miserable childhood you know he would never ever trade those experiences and those times with his family for a much better one if he was given the chance.
5 This is a truly remarkable book. Using an energetic style which conveys the intense tumult of his youth in Limerick, Ireland,  McCourt packs into whole paragraphs, sometimes huge unpunctuated run-on sentences, the horrors and wonders of his childhood. I can't contend with any of the thousands of reviews here, and probably echo what each says: This is a modern classic. McCourt gives away the struggles he and his family went through for decades, but through it all the book remains full of love, wonder, trimuph of spirit and will, exuberance and hope.A five star book, sometimes too painful to get through, but written with a spirit like no other I have ever read.
5 This was the last book my mother read before she passed away last year,  and she had urged me to read it also.  It took me a full year to pick it  up, and it is one of the most heartwarming, tearjerking and humorous books  I have ever read.  I am glad my mother's last book was such a joy to read -  Thank you Frank McCourt.
4 I think that this book is wondeful. The author has been threw so much and he came out on top with his courage and wisdom to know that life can be lived in a good way after all. I would give this book 4 thumbs up! Good Job  !
5 This book is reccommended by Stephen King in &quot;On Writing&quot; - a book I highly reccommend.Frank McCourt's &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; is a wonderful literary accomplishment.  I was deeply touched by the story (as I have an alcoholic family-abandoning father, too).The prose is rythmic and soothing, and the stories are a wonderful tapestry of life.  There are moments when the failings of the people around Frank make you wish you could reach back in time and slap them.  There are moments of laughter and tears, and throughout the book you cannot help but root for Frank as he struggles to keep his family and himself sane during the hardscrabble life they lead.I reccommend this to all, however, if you have trouble with rambling sentences or dialogue with phonetic colloquialisms, you may be better off seeing the movie - which is a perfect compliment to the book.The ending leaves you dying for more, however, I found &quot;'Tis&quot; to lack the heart and the hope of &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot;  Also of interest, Malachy McCourt has also written two books on his related life.I delayed reading this because I dislike sad stories, but this one is really a story of how a family's love can light up the darkest corner of the world, and how that love never leaves you, no matter how imperfect it may be.Enjoy.
5 Angela's Ashes tells the story of the early life of Frank McCourt, a boy born in pre-depression Brooklyn who grows up in Ireland in the 1930s and 40s.  His story is one of incredible sadness.  His father spends the family's mother on drink, several of his siblings die in early childhood and he grows up in desperate poverty in Ireland.  Nevertheless, Angela's Ashes is an extremely optimistic and light-hearted book.  As a child, McCourt has the outlook of a Tom Sawyer, looking at every hardship as an adventure while retaining the love for his family that Tom Sawyer never had.McCourt loves his alcoholic father for sharing Irish patriotism with him, loves his mother for caring for him through such difficult times and clearly was a good older brother to his siblings.  Despite the great love for his family, McCourt is also a rebel, ignoring arbitrary rules set by his parents, his teachers and his priests while never harming those he loves by his rebellion.Angela's Ashes has the rare ability to remind us of our good fortune without seeming preachy.  The lesson of Angela's Ashes is not &quot;be happy for having such a good life because others have it worse off&quot; but rather is &quot;no matter what adversity you face, life is a wonderful thing.&quot;  This is truly a wonderful lesson and will uplift you while reading this book.
5 RIP Frank, you were and will remain a good man in many eyes.I write this as Frank McCourt passed away today at the age of 78. This book is a true and heartfelt tear jerker. What some people go through is a true hell, yet they persevere and overcome in the end.A must read for everyone who thinks that all is lost ! ! !
4 I loved this book.  McCourt's use of the language is tremendously evocative - you can actually hear the voices speaking as you read.  His story-telling is superb - he is able to simultaneously tell a hideous story  and roll you on the floor laughing - with tears in your eyes.  I thought  the passage about his first communion was one of the funniest things I've  read in years - in the context of a certifiably hideous childhood.I  have no illusions that the people and events depicted here are in any way  representative of the Irish Catholic population in general - this is a  memoir, a very personal story, and never claims to be anything other than  that.  It's probably dressed up a bit - I never entirely trust a  &quot;memoir&quot; with direct quotes of lengthy conversations, especially  when the protagonist is too young to really remember verbatim statements.  But even tarted up, it's a great tale - makes you glad to be a German  Jew!I recommend this book to anyone with an appreciation of fine writing  and a keen ear for the nuances and music of language.
5 What can you say? This book takes you back and you become part of the McCourt's family. I recommend anyone who is selfish to read this book. It paints a picture that is priceless. We go back and see the tragedies that have occurred; yet McCourt's asks for no pity. He writes the truth and the details are vivid words that few writers succeed in writing. I implore everyone to read this book.
4 this memoir winner of the pulitizer prize for fiction is a fictionalized account of the life of frank mccourt and his family from his birth and early years in NYC to the times when his family moved back to limerick in southern ireland ,and the grinding poverty and grim surroundings that mccourt and his brothers and sisters had to endure ,from his fathers difficulty in finding a job because of the fact of his coming from northern ireland and also when he had a job he would drink his wages before he went home ,in turns heartbreaking and laugh out loud it mines a vivid picture of life in the 30's and 40's in ireland and new york city the only thing that would spoil your enjoyment would be the knowledge of the fact that is this is part FICTION and it would be interesting to know how much is truth and how much has been a product of mccourts imagination.
5 The heart of this book is the character of McCourt's longsuffering mother, Angela. I love her response to her sons when they whine (often with good reason, given the extent of their poverty): "I'm sorry for your troubles," Angela says. She teaches her sons to weather the storms of life, for she has certainly weathered a few of her own- an alcoholic husband who cannot pay the bills, the deaths of her young children, the humiliation of begging the Catholic Church for charity to sustain her family. Angela was a saint, and McCourt has written this loving story in honor of his mother.I had heard so many good things about this book that I was actually reluctant to read it. I thought that it could not measure up to the reviews- but it did. McCourt's prose reads like poetry. I encourage the reader to first listen to the CD of McCourt reading Angela's Ashes with his Irish tongue. Also, the movie is NOT a disappointment, and is a "must see" for those who loved the book.
5 After seeing how  many reviews "Angela's Ashes" have, I was hesitating if I should add my own. At the end, I decided to do so, without reading the other reviews. Maybe I will repeat things already said, but I wanted to express my opinion because this book deserves all the good words it gets.Memoir is an increasingly popular type of prose - essentially, everyone feels they can write a memoir. And this is true, of course. The difficult thing, which not just anyone can achieve, is writing a good memoir, which would stand out of the crowd. Frank McCourt succeeded in this respect."Angela's Ashes" describe the the author's memories from his earliest years until he is nineteen. His family is central to the book, which starts when his parents, Angela and Malachy, meet, they live in Brooklyn, where Frank, his brother Malachy, the twins and the sister are born. Then it follows the family through the deaths of several children, the return to Ireland, the fight with objective difficulties as well as the personal faults, Frank's illnesses, observations, the life of the street children and poor people in Limerick, Frank's school years during the World War II, until his travel back to America. The family is, in a way, a typical Irish family with a curse of alcoholism hanging over it, with the history of Ireland present at every moment, with the respect for Irish tradition and Catholic church, with poverty and daily struggle. But despite the accurate descriptions of the shortcomings of his parents, and a great dose of bitterness and criticism, McCourt manages to show his affection towards them and leave the reader without doubt as to his love for both of them. The insights into the society, system and life of the community are very accurate and sharp as well.The book, written from a position of the child growing up, which is reflected in the language and imagery, evokes powerful emotions. So strong, that it brigs tears to the eyes and leaves the reader in wonder. There is, however, a fair share of humor especially later in the book, so everything is well balanced yet natural.The Pullitzer prize was, in this case, deserved. I heartily recommend "Angela's Ashes" and will definitely read (and review) "'Tis".
5 Frank McCourt's "Angela's Ashes" is probably the easiest review that I have had to write since I have been doing such reviews in this space. Why? Frank McCourt's book of childhood memoirs is my story. No, not in the details of his life's story, or mine. But rather in how being Irish, being poor and being uprooted affects your childhood, and later. And those traumas, for good or evil, cross generational lines. McCourt, we are told as his story unfolds, was born in America of immigrants of the Diaspora after Irish independence who, for one reason or another, returned to the old country in defeat in the 1930's. As McCourt notes right at the beginning, that fact in itself provides a rather ironic twist if one is familiar with Irish history (at least until very recently). He is, in any case, thus a child of the Great Depression and World War II, the generation of my parents, as it was refracted through Ireland during that period. I, on the other hand, am a child of the 1960's, the "Generation of `68" here in America born of the dreaded Irish Catholic-English Protestant combination- and raised in an Irish Catholic enclave. Nevertheless the pages of this memoir are filled to the brim with the results of the emotional (and sometimes physical scars) of being "shanty" Irish in this world that hit home to this reader.That said, we did not share the terrible effect that "the drink" had on creating his dysfunctional family with his father's, Malachy McCourt, crazed need for the alcohol cure to drown his sorrows and his bitterness and the fact that his great moment in life was his bit for "the cause" (of Irish independence). A familiar story in the Irish community here and in the old country but my father seldom drank, although he too was constantly out of work and shared with Frank's father that same bitterness about his fate.  He was uneducated, lacking in skills and prospects and as a "hillbilly" Protestant Southerner from coal country down in Kentucky. Thus, an `outsider' like Frank's father. That is the commonality that caught my eye (and sometimes my throat) as I read of Frank's youthful trials, tribulations and adventures. McCourt's ability to tap into that "mystical" something is what makes this a fine read, whether you are Irish or not.Throughout the book McCourt's woe begotten but fatally prideful father is constantly referred to in the Irishtown working class poor ghetto of Limerick (and elsewhere, as well, but the heart of the story is told from there) as having an odd manner. This reflects a certain clannishness against those from the North of Ireland (Dare I say it, then area the known as Ulster) and a sneaking suspicion amount that crowd of some alien (meaning English Protestant) heritage. As the book progresses that odd trait is transferred (by heredity?) to Frank in his various wanderings, enterprise and desires. What joins us together then is that odd manner that gets repeatedly invoked throughout the book. Frank survived to tell the tale. As did I. But in both cases it appears to have been a near thing.There is more that unites us. The shame culture, not an exclusive Irish Catholic property but very strong nevertheless, drilled in by the clannishness, the closeness of neighbors, the Catholic religion and by the bloody outsiders- usually but not always Protestants of some sort (as least for blame purposes- you know, the eight hundred years of British tyranny although very real to be sure).  All driven by not having nearly enough of this world's goods.  Every time I read a passage about the lack of food, the quality of the food, the conditions of the various tenements that the McCourt family lived in, the lack of adequate and clean clothing I cringed at the thoughts from my own childhood. Or the various times when the family was seriously down and out and his mother, the beloved Angela of the title, had to beg charity of one form or another from some institution that existed mainly to berate the poor. I can remember own my mother's plaintive cry when my brothers and I misbehaved that the next step was the county poor farm.And how about the false pride and skewed order of priorities? Frank's father was a flat out drunk and was totally irresponsible. From a child's perspective, however, he is still your dad and must be given the respect accordingly, especially against the viciousness of the outside world. But life's disappointments for the father also get reflected in the expectations for the son. The dreams are smaller. Here, the horizons are pretty small when a governmental job with its security just above the "dole" is the touchstone of respectability. Sean O'Casey was able to make enduring plays from the slums of Dublin out of this material. And Frank McCourt enduring literature. Thanks, brother.Note: The movie version of "Angela's Ashes" pretty fairly reflects the intentions of Frank McCourt in his childhood memoirs and follows the book accordingly, without the usual dramatic embellishments of that medium. The story line is so strong it needs no such "touch-ups". Particularly compelling is the very visual sense of utter poverty down at the base of Irish society in Frank McCourt's childhood.
3 Maybe I was expecting to much, because the reviews I read kept proclaiming this book to be a masterpiece.  However, as one reviewer has already said, it got slightly repetitive after the second half.  Also, while I didn't mind the depressing nature of the book (that actually added to its allure), I am not a big fan of McCourt's writing style.  At times it was slightly confusing, at others it was annoying.  The book is a good, decent read, and I would still recommend it, but I can't gvie it a glowing review or more than 3 stars, especially when I have much better books on my shelf.  Try Bulgakov or Maguire for better reading.
5 Having just finished &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; and all of the reviews on Amazon...I had to add my notes. No one has mentioned the superior writing style and the unusual techniques of dialogue that were so well put to use in the writing of the book. I pushed the book back several times in awe of the unique style .  I believe that everyone has a story in them...but only the blessed few can tell theirs.  McCourt not only had the story to tell but the expertize to tell it well.  Didn't anyone else notice the fantastic new dialogue method???  To say that this book provoked memories of my childhood...pulledpathos and pain to my heart and yet showered no blame...would be putting it mildly.  I am extremely well read.  I have favorites.  But this story creates more stories...this story creates more questions...this story  creates challenges..so, to Mr McCourt...if he were to ever read this,thank you!!  For the brilliant way you wrote andshared your story...  I sing the song to you!Sandra
2 But I was glad when I got to the end. God, it bored me.
4 Frank McCourt tells the poignant, touching story of his childhood in Ireland.  He was from a poor family and his father was a drunkard.  While he did not have an easy childhood, he never let go of the dream to make something better of himself and provide a better life for his mother.  McCourt's way of writing is exactly like he's telling a story and I had to get used to reading like I was listening to a storyteller.  It takes some getting used to, but once you do, you can practically hear his accent.
5 If you haven't read &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; and simply read a plot summary of it, you'll probably groan. In this book, Frank McCourt tells of his terrible Irish childhood in the 1930s and 40s, his alcoholic father, depressed mother, and the poverty he lived in. Before I read this book, I heard it described and privately thought, &quot;That's really sad, but do I really want to read another one of 'these' memoirs?&quot;But &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; is not remarkable for the story it tells, but for the way it is told. So many people have stories like McCourt's, only a few can tell them so well. As I read this book, I realized that while the events in it were usually horrible, McCourt didn't attempt to overdramatize them. He simply described them. And described them, I will say, with beauty. His words are filled intelligence, keen observation, and some incredible kind of humor that manages to unforgettably color the experiences and show the fighting spirit that lead McCourt out of his miserable existence. On the other hand, this understated and almost poetic writing style lends itself so well to describing the horrors of the author's life. Because of his wit, determination, and charm, displayed through his writing, we come to care deeply for the author's character, and his misfortunes impact us all the more deeply.Many &quot;prize-winning&quot; books are too strange and artsy to really be appreciated; &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; is just the opposite. A Pulitizer Prize winner, it will capture you with its rare beauty and astonishing power.
5 This portrayal of Frank McCourt's childhood/early adolescence is in a  class by itself.  The writing style from a child's perspective is  tremendously honesty giving it a unique freshness and dignity.  His  childhood experience was one of extreme poverty which is something most of  us cannot relate to but it reminds us that regardless of socioeconomic  status, we all can relate to the basic things in life - relationships with  siblings, parental embarrassments, learning life's lessons through  whispered conversations with friends etc.  This book has something to offer  any intelligent reader.  I absolutley loved it!!  READ IT.  If you were  once a confused child, you will relate.
5 Through the eyes of a child. Frank McCourt's New York Times best seller is one of the most vivid and beautiful books ever written. His way of writing from an innocent boy to a teenager is so appealing and so brilliant. This  book is the story of Frank McCourt, who was born to an alcoholic father and  depressed young mother in the Depression in New York. His earliest memories  are in New York where his brothers, Malachy and the twins Oliver and Eugene  were born along with his sister, Margaret. After the death of the infant  Margaret, the McCourts move to Limerick, Ireland, Frank's mother's  hometown. There he experiences more deaths and more births along with rude  Catholics, a mean aunt, strict teachers, an uncle who works in the coal  factory (therefore his face is always black) and fleas. Hilarious compared  to its darkness, this book deserves more than five stars.
1 I quit reading this book because it was so depressing.  I love to read but not this book.  I might pick it up again just to see if it gets any better.
5 Author is a great storyteller, drawing the reader into the story and feeling like they are actually present in time, place, and circumstance.  It is amazing what people can endure and their strong will to survive and better themselves.  A first hand look at the abject poverty of a family struggling to make it day to day in Ireland during the war.  Beautifully told, a not to be missed read.
4 I have to come out in full disclosure at the start of this review to admit something: I had a pre-conceived idea of Angela's Ashes due to a specific shout out to the book in an episode of The Office (American Version). I was expecting it to be a real downer of a book - and I almost didn't start it for fear that it would leave me too depressed. The good news? That is not what happened. The bad news? I let a television show skew my thoughts altogether. Ha ha.This was one of the more unique memoirs I have read. The reasoning for it being that it spans a 13 year stretch of time (McCourt's entire childhood), and this lends the author an interesting tool to use. We start at a very young age with Frank McCourt and, therefore, are able to walk through so much of his childhood together with him. The writing is wonderful in the fact that you hear him from each current age, and see the development of a child throughout. As McCourt grows, so does the writing. I found this to be lovely and incredibly charming.In reference to my disclosure from above (my thinking that it would be far too depressing to handle), I actually had a response to the book that was quite the contrary. It showed me the incredible resiliency that we have in the human spirit. Although little Frankie is growing up in the most dire of circumstances, he is dealing with what he knows. There are still many moments of wonder, childhood discoveries and the awe of being alive. One would never wish the circumstances of his life upon another but, from the perspective of a child, we see that the spirit of our kind finds life within anything that we go through. Please do not misread my words - the issues that are tackled here are, in fact, dire. McCourt deals with family deaths, starvation, uninhabitable living conditions, deadly diseases, and little to no parents to save the day. But underneath it all, you can not help but see the spirit thrive.I am almost ashamed to say that this book left me quite hopeful - and proud to be a member of the human race. I applaud McCourt's incredibly brave account. It is one thing to tell others that you grew up in sad circumstances - and another thing altogether to air it out in such a raw fashion. You will be with him the entire time- feeling his shame and fear, and understanding what it is like to be very much left out. He is able to find a way for his readers to truly grasp from his perspective what it felt like to be actually unwanted and avoided, unlike other accounts that strain for sympathy. This could not have been easy to do, and I felt very fortunate to have been trusted as a reader to share these experiences with him.
5 It is hard to believe in the 'not so distance' past things like that went on.  What a pathetic life that family lead.  Amazing story!
5 Mr. McCourt's recollection of his childhood years is authentic and real. He experienced child neglect and hunger that rips your heart out. I felt his humor was superiorly wooven into the story and that is what kept me  moving on with this book. My hat is off to him !
1 Was my copy the only one without punctuation? Attention to little details such as qutaion marks makes any story more readable. I am far from being a grammar Nazi, and can usually forgive minor things. But perhaps that is because I have read many a 12 year olds online fanfiction stories that have more flow and better grammar than Frank McCourt's writing does.I felt so little pity for the mother who seemed to be constrained by her religious beliefs that a mother should stay home, out of the work force but had no problem having a `knee trembler' with a man she had just met that night. If she were brave and bold enough to take that type of risk, why did she not try to find work of her own? It was far from unheard of, especially in New York City in 1938. I have read far to many and have personally known many people who have found themselves in similar situations but instead of fleeing from place to place, they picked themselves up and did what it took to make life bearable, most even made life better.How was it that the extended family members able to send money for cross Atlantic travel, but could not find the resources to help the struggling family once they reached Ireland?I am sorry, but all I can see are the mistakes in this story. Mr. McCourt, please do the Irish a favor and stop writing. You are doing harm to their long held and greatly earned reputation as great story tellers and writers.
2 "Angela's Ashes" is an autobiographical story of Frank McCourt growing up in Ireland during the depression and World War II.  Through the entire book I just really wanted something good to happen to this family, but it never does.The first probably 3/4 of the book is incredibly eye-opening.  It was amazing to me how little this family could live with, especially food.  It made me see how resilient people can be, how little we really need, and the terrible circumstances some people live in.If you don't read anything else in the book, the chapter on Frank's first communion is worthwhile.  I was in tears reading it to my husband, laughing so hard at Frank's grandmother's horror at Frank throwing it up in her backyard.Overall, I don't recommend "Angela's Ashes."  It was bad while he was young and poor and that was difficult to read, but the last about 1/4 of the book the story turns south.  Think young man growing up.  He gets a little too much 'excitement' when he's alone and sometimes with others.  Maybe McCourt is happy sharing his blatant immorality, but I don't need to read about it.I love when I finish a book, close it, and just have to sit and breathe for a few minutes and let the greatness of it all soak in.  When I finished this there wasn't even a hint of that.  More like, "That was it?"  There was some good, but it didn't overwhelm the bad.
4 The hardscrabble, poor Irish family with the shiftless alcoholic father who can't hold a job and drinks away his paycheck; the long-suffering mother ("she was a saint!"); the legions of children, some who die young, the rest who struggle by, barefoot, cold and hungry; the protagonist who tries to rise above his lot in life and make his dreams come true in America. It's such a worn out stereotype that it borders on a SNL skit or Family Guy cutaway scene.But this was Frank McCourt's childhood universe, and he can't help it that he lived a stereotype. (Assuming he didn't take too great poetic liberties to stretch the truth, and by all accounts, he didn't.)Just like Tracy Jordan's movie "Hard to Watch" on 30 Rock, Angela's Ashes is hard to read. In part because of the misery and that fills the pages, but also simply because of the literary style and syntax. There are no quotation marks to denote characters talking and no indents to denote new paragraphs. As a result, the book reads like one long oral tale of woe told by an old man at the pub over several pints of Guinness. At times, McCourt almost rivals James Joyce in his stream of consciousness - though it is nowhere close to being Ulysses' Ashes. But stick with it. It's depressing, it's melancholy, it's frustrating, it's soul-baring, and very, very occasionally, it's uplifting. In short, it's Irish.
5 I realize that an American classic should, at a minimum, be set in America, and, ideally, authored by an American writer. Angela's Ashes, however, is more American than anything I  have read in a long time. The  exploration of the social impact on the history of the United States of  childhoods like that of Frank's would make a great topic for a book...  Amazing book, NOT for the weak of heart. You should not read this book for  entertainment, but for enlightment....
5 This book really helps you appreciate all you have.  It also helps you appreciate those who survived an unimaginable childhood.  I just can't imagine how Frank McCourt became the man and author he is today.
5 This story is beautifully written. I've read it, listened it the audiobook and eventually watched the DVD version. Of all three the audiobook was without a doubt the most moving. Narrated by the author, his voice brings the story to life in a way that no other reader, including my own eyes, could do. It is one of the best audiobook experiences I've ever had, and consequently one of the best books I've ever read.
5 Very few times you find a book that you can qualify as brilliant and this is one of them. Beautifully written, sad in many aspects, without becoming depressing. At the end you can appreciate so many things that you take for granted and just admire people who can thrive despite incredible adversities.
5 What really sets Mr. McCourt's story apart from any other memoir, or the rather dramatic (and appalling) childhood he led - what really sets it all above the rest, is simply the style.  The lack of punctuation, the run-on sentences, no quotation marks; all give us a truly genuine sense of his thought processes and the swirling madness that was around him.  I felt miserable at times, particularly at any point involving going to the restroom in a little hovel outside the McCourt home.  Not that it will change anything, but Americans need this kind of literature more than anyone else.  We have it so easy, and that is so rarely the case elsewhere.
5 Absolutely spellbounding tale of a young person's early life in poverty.  He writes in beautifully colored language, painting the portrait of a child who watches siblings die and other horrid circumstances.  Irish will relate but it works for all origins.
5 How I admire Frank McCourt's ability to have gained such character through such incredible adversity.  His gift for writing is evident throughtout the book. The words are down to earth yet thoroughly poignant. I came away a  more thoughtful and grateful American having read it!
1 This book was very depressing. I did not find the humor helped make the book an easier read. So sad.
5 Wow - I'm still speechless after reading this book.  When it was described to me, I sort of dreaded it - poverty, hunger, filth, alcoholism - not uplifting topics.  But told by Mr. McCourt in a faithful childlike voice,  these subjects while still grim take on a factual bitterless tone.  Can't  wait to read 'Tis.
5 I was absolutely taken away with this book. From the first page I did not want to put it down. There were times I cried and times I laughed. Thank you Mr. McCourt for writing this memoir. I will never forget this book. You have shown what true perseverance of the human spirit truly is.
5 I read this just to see what all the fuss was about; I am generally not a  fan of directly autobiographical material. This book absorbed me very  quickly and would not let me go until I finished... and now I can't wait to  get the sequal. McCourt tells his life beautifully, using a  child's-point-of-view style of narrative that his honest, cute, and  humorous. He brings all the characters around him to life and gives them  enough personality to make you feel like you know then; and perhaps you do  in the carnation of a friend or relative of your own. Insightful of his own  past, without letting a trace of his future voice enter, McCourt has  entered into the literary world a memoir to be heralded and studied by all.
3 Worse than the ordinary miserable memoir is the miserable Irish memoir. I wanted so to like this book. I didn't. The narration seemed somehow dishonest to the memories, through a lens that didn't just cloud them with  gauze, but adulterated them.I was put in mind at the beginning of  Dicken's Mrs. Gammage, who 'feels it more' than anyone else.Self pity  is never pretty. There are so many better writers who have tackled the same  territory.  To be fair, it was not so much the narration of events that  struck me as dishonest, but the characterizations. Memoirs are by their  nature egocentric, but I found this one too maudlin.
4 Vividly and absorbingly written, Angela's Ashes puts you through the despair and suffering of growing up poor and wanting. I finished it but my wife couldn't take the long ongoing agony. Although it does offer some hope and humor it is heavily outweighed by its despair. If you liked this book you will enjoy the struggles shown in BIPOLAR BUFFALO- A Mosaic of Minds Journey. But that book balances the pathos concurrently with humor as well as hope- a more balanced bipolar ride.
5 This book was great.  McCourt really takes you to Limerick as good as anyone could.  Some Pulitzer winning books are a bit stuffy but this one great all the way through.
3 This book is interesting because the tone is original, and there is humour, and also because of the circumstances at the time.One the reader has digested this there is still about halfway to go, and the second half makes for much less fun, original, interesting reading.Well worth reading - but, in my view, not worth keeping or re-reading.
4 The book is sad and amazing at the same time. It is incredible the way some people live their lifes, making everyone around misserable at the same time as loving them.
5 This is a worthwhile read.  Mr. McCourt has an uncanny ability to bring his story to life.  I enjoyed his book much more than his brother's.  The book is wrought with poignancy, humor, tragedy, emotion and reality.  I look forward to reading 'Tis.
4 I found Angela's ashes to be funny, engaging, sad, horifying and a lesson to all women who have ever loved a man unable to hold a job.Franks tale is one of unimaginable loss and survival told with an edge of humor.  If you liked James Joyce (which I do NOT), you will love this book.My overriding problem was the chopy writing style considered sophisticated and &quot;cool&quot; by up and coming writers.  As a reader, I find it distracting and anoying.Once I got past the stylistic white-caps, I found the book to be educational and enjoyable.  I recommend this book, especially to the older audience (there is adult material).  I hope you laugh, and cry, with Frank and his family.
5 Just finished rereading Angela's Ashes for the fourth time and it is as entrancing as ever.  One of the best books around and an absolute miracle of writing.  On this one book alone, Frank McCourt should get the Nobel.
1 This story was HORRIBLE!  Although recommended by a friend, after reading at least 1/3 into the story, I started skimming!  Everything was the same....terrible story, not well written and horribly sad for me to hear about the poorness of this family and how they did or rather didn't survive!  I really hated it!
5 There was never a finer use of audio to enhance the experience of a book.  The book itself is indisputably a masterwork; enough has been written about that.  I just want to emphasize that for this book in particular -- an epic autobiography told almost entirely in the first person present-tense -- Frank McCourt's own voice is indispensable.  Reading the words on the page cannot convey the difference between the southern and northern Ireland accents that he renders intuitively, adding a deep layer of characterization and color.  His rendition of other people's voices -- neighbors, teachers, relatives, classmates -- enhances our understanding of those relationships.  And most importantly, his *inflection* of each line of his own thoughts and dialogue conveys his actual experience of a situation in a way the written words could not: resignation where a reader might mistakenly infer desperation, the true intensity of the shame and guilt that pervaded so much of his childhood -- and yes, occasional wonderment, pride, even joy.Angela's Ashes is my single favorite book, which I own on CD and listen to every year (when it starts to rain in northern California -- fans will know why).  For anyone who wants one unforgettable experience: LISTEN.
5 I found this memorior very wonderful.  Your heart gets wrapped up in this  mans childhood.  You find yourself engrossed in his heart-wrenching tale of  his personal experiences.  I laughed, I cried, I cheered!!!! It was a  wonderful way to spend the day because that's how long it took me to read  it.
5 wow!!  Author had an extremely hard life growing up in Ireland. it's amazing he made it. it was refreshing to hear the Author's story in his own Irish dialogue and mannerisms.  the book was like new.  price excellant.  shipped in a timely manner. mailing packaging excellant. no damage to book during shipment. i really appreciate this. i would recomment this seller to family and friends.thank you
4 ...Boy am I glad I got this book - it is a real treasure. This book tells a great story and is really interesting (though also very depressing). Highly recommended.
5 This is one of the best books I ever read.  Right from the beginning I was laughing.. then crying and repeating that throughout the whole book.I guarantee you'll laugh out loud many times, especially if you are/were a Catholic.  The &quot;Holy Toast&quot; had me laughing for quite a while.Sometimes it's hard to imagine a life as difficult as what he lived.  Having nothing to eat, or eating a sheeps head for dinner.  The living conditions I think were almost worse.  Bug filled beds, flooded houses or living behind a communal loo.  This is one of the few books that I can read more than once and still enjoy it as much as the first time.
5 I found this to be one of the best books I have read in a long time.  I did not find the other books that came after it to be of much interest but this was excellent.  I really enjoy true stories/memoirs and this one did not disappoint.  I also found it enlightening since I knew little about the plight of the Irish.  Though I married into an Italian family where both maternal and paternal grandparents were immigrants, I didn't have the opportunity to get to know them or hear their story.  Apparently, their offspring didn't care to hear or repeat it either and it is one of my major regrets that their story was buried with them.  This book makes the plight of Angela live on and teaches us not to be so judgmental about what a mother will do when necessary to provide for her children.  I loved the book.
5 This is an autobiography that made me want to write my own. It's so wonderfully written until I cried and laughed at the same time. He's like singing his sadness. Telling a story like a poetry.I never felt this way but it's like euphoria that only can be felt when a book strike a chord
5 &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; is quite simply one of the best books I have ever read--it has stayed with me long after I finished it, and it is one of a handful of books I've bothered to read twice.  While a few readers have  utterly missed the point and dismissed McCourt's memoir as &quot;too  depressing&quot; or &quot;repetitive&quot;, he has achieved one of the  goals of great literature: &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; takes you into a life  and world that is far beyond the imaginings of most readers, and makes it  live and breathe.  Though now in his sixties, he skillfully narrates his  story through the perspective of the child he once was, perfectly conveying  a child's fear, confusion and occasional obliviousness to the bleakness of  his life, his mother's sufferings, and his fathers alcoholic rampages.  Through it all he writes with grace, tenderness, irony, and even humor--  and not a shred of self-pity.  McCourt's childhood was certainly hell, and  the miracle is not that he not only survived it, but did so with his  humanity and compassion intact. The normal pains of an average childhood,  which so many people seem to want to blame for all their adult failures,  pales to insignificance by comparison. You may never look at your own life  in the same way once you have finished it.
2 Incredibly painful and engrossing at the same time.  Unbelieveable childhood suffering, with an ineffectual mother and an alcoholic father. I found the Frank character compelling and sympathetic until he grew up, was cruel and callous to his mother, left Ireland and became just like his despicable father, only addicted to sex instead of alcohol.
1 Jeez, I had hoped at the end, at least, we would have had some good news about McCourt going to America and becoming a success - but no, just ended on the same depressing level the whole book expressed.
4 Love story's like this. Also, anything that comes from Ireland.  Seems I've seen the movie ???  Held my interest all the way through.  At the moment, just started reading it's &#34;sequel&#34;.  Is this book true?  Sure 'sounds' like ti.
4 This book tells the story of author Frank McCourt's difficult childhood.  Either he has an amazing memory or, more likely, he's embellished a bit of this to fill in the gaps to make it a readable memoir.  I can't remember what I ate for breakfast, never mind what I ate or longed to eat for breakfast when I was wee child.The book reads like a novel and I quickly forgot it was a first hand account of growing up in a slum with absolutely nothing but an exhausted mum, a lush of a dad who can't keep a job and a slew of younger siblings who seem to die off as soon as the next one is born.  Frank grows up quickly because mom is tired, dad is lazy and he and his younger brother must take of the younger kids, scour the lane for bits of coal to keep his family warm, steal bits of food to survive and then face cruelty at school.  The book is pretty grim but compelling enough that I wanted to continue reading to see how Frank makes it out alive.I've seen criticism that this book is a one-sided view of Ireland during the depression and from what I read it looks like that is true.  Many times in the book the author points out that other boys had shoes and weren't eating a pig head for Christmas dinner but the author gets away with it because he is writing from his experience and not of the experience of the boy with the full belly and hard-working father.This was a thoroughly compelling, wryly funny, and often tragic read.  It's much longer than most of the books I read but when the end came it was too soon.
5 As someone who spent the majority of his formative childhood living within the realms of a struggling blue-collar Irish-American Catholic neighborhood housing project, much of the atmosphere and flavor so memorably and powerfully described in this best-selling memoir seems like familiar territory, from the hard-drinking and somewhat remote and indifferent fathers to the sainted mothers, from the raucous black humor to the spasms of terrible drama and tragedy, often visited on helplessly impoverished children. Yet Frank McCourt manages to display a unusually colorful and quite unique descriptive power to the florid retelling of this life lived under conditions of extreme privation and misery, a life which he largely describes in terms so dismal, dark and devoid of hope that it is remarkable to witness the degree of grace, resilience, and good humor that he so often brings to bear. It is this most prominent feature of his creative writing that gives such a powerful testimony to his ability as a writer.Like James Joyce's personal glimpses into Irish lives in his classic series of short stories, "The Dubliners", McCourt evokes the suffocating and smarmy atmosphere of flagrant poverty, to the point that I often found the story difficult to read. Thus, regardless of how well he illustrates the ways in which he and his family struggled to overcome the circumstances, it was, for me at least, often difficult reading. For any of us who have actually lived under such circumstances of privation, these powerfully drawn recollections can be challenging and painful to recall. And while I would never suggest that my own experiences approach the extremes of want and squalor described herein, I took a long time to finally work my way into the portions of the book where the McCourt brothers finally triumph based on their American citizenry.  While the tone of the memoir is sometimes downbeat and sullen, the progress of these two young pilgrims toward a life of greater promise is one that gains ballast as we progress toward the end.The memoir is, as one has come to expect, full of the usual Irish complaints, from the egregious and often outrageous alcoholism of the father and Irish men in general to the full McCourt treatment regarding the so-called Irish troubles and the unmitigated perfidy of the dreaded English. Having heard all this throughout my fifty years, it finally becomes tiresome, boring and irrelevant to hear all the highly polished and crudely embellished litanies again and again here. We who are either Irish or of Irish ancestry must learn to live with what we have, to do the best we can to make the most of what we find our existential circumstances may be, and I for one would hope that the reading of books like this, books which faithfully chronicle the consequences of all the particulars of traditional Irish working class culture, would act to mollify the most extreme of these conditions and save the next generation of young Irish men and women from its manifest dysfunctions.
5 Most people have heard about this book, so I won't go into the details.  Let me just say that if I had the money, I would hire planes to drop copies of Angela's Ashes all over the world.  It should be required reading for everyone.
5 Angela's ashes is my favorite book and it is simply the best I ever read. It is about two years ago that I finished it and I still remember that I found myself laughing and crying at the same time. Truly, I think that this book deserves a rating of at least 6-7 stars, because 5 aren't enough. Don't miss it - it's worth reading. Once read - you will discover that your life will never be the same as before.
5 Frank McCourt's book is the most sensitive and honest memoirs I have read to date. McCourt does not pine for the reader's sympathy, but instead writes his memories as a child in a very matter-of-fact style. He is a boy who knows no other life, and is making the best of what he does know. A boy who loves his family and friends despite their many shortcomings. A boy who finds happiness and joy in the simple things in life. From this, we (especially Americans) can all learn a lot. Because McCourt wrote in this style, at times, I found myself on the brink of sadness, laughter, embarrassment and anger at the same moment. How could a boy write so lovingly about a father so neglectful of his family? How was he able to find any humor in the midst of such suffering? The answers to these elements are what make Frank McCourt's writing so meaningful.I must admit that for the first part of the book I had trouble understanding why McCourt's writing was so fragmented. But as I continued to read, I actually felt myself entering mid-twentieth century Ireland, one with its people and culture. At that point, I realized that this was the way the book had to be written for the reader to truly live the experience. I chuckled to myself for ever doubting McCourt's style.In conclusion, even if you are unable to glean the bits of humanity from Angela's Ashes, it is still definitely worth the read for the sensational storytelling alone. I look forward to reading the other books in McCourt's repertoire.
5 This is a must read for every Irish-American.  Too often we have this Hallmark, profiteering few of Ireland that is all shamrocks, Claddagh rings and intricately ivory woven sweaters.  Frank McCourt gives an honest, humorous and heartbreaking account of early 20th century life for an Irish Catholic family shuttled from Ireland to America and back.  This is the part of Irish history that American Clans are either completely ignorant to, or go out of their way to Guinness and jig up.  One of my favorite all time reads; it truly helped me understand my own set of Irish immigrant grandparents and opened my eyes to the rooting of our family dynamics.
5 I recently bought this book for my father because I read it and fell in love with it when it first came out in 1996.  It is one of my favorite books in the world and the one that really touched my soul.  For the ones that missed it, now it's your chance to see the greatness of Frank McCourt up close and personal.  His prose is elegant and beautiful but that's not what you will remember about this book, it's his courage and grace in confronting a painful, devastating childhood that nonetheless went on to shape a great writer.  Frank McCourt didn't write this book till he was in his sixtees, the right time in my opinion because his talent and genious only matured through the years making all the more exquisite.  The legacy of this magnificent writer was well established when he died but generations after generations wil go on discovering him long after we're gone because with "Angela's Ashes" he entered the realm of immortality.
5 This book takes you back in time.  Frank McCourt makes you feel like you are there and right along side him as a boy.  Filled with all the emotions a poverty stricken boy must face.  If you enjoy a great autobiography....then this is a must read.
3 This book shows someone can go through a lot in life, not have much money and deal with some abuse and still turn out OK. The book had many interesting tales of a life I have never known but have heard about. I have known people who had been through some of the same challenges as a child and grew up to be very interesting people as adults. I felt it got a little long in the middle but after a break of a few weeks I was able to pick up the book again and finish it. It did get better in the later pages of the book and I found it hard to put down.
1 After just having finished McCourt's novel, I'm wondering - quite baffled - at what the fuss is about.  This book is neither interesting, engaging, or well-developed.  None of the characters gain sympathy or have any redeeming qualities.  Worst of all, the ending leaves you wondering why you  spent time reading the first 458 pages, since there is no closure (or even  a suggestion thereof) as to the fate of the characters.  I realize there is  a sequel, but a memoir should offer some sort of clincher to the story,  otherwise, the meaning is lost.Also, when by some miracle the author  touches upon an interesting memory, he wraps it up within two or three  paragraphs, leaving you to re-read the paragraphs in order to escape the  onslaught of drivel to come.  It reads like a series of  snapshots.Instead, _Angela's Ashes_ reads like a laundry list of deaths  by consumption and breakfasts of fried bread and tea.  Repeated  descriptions of chamber pots, lavatories, and oozing orifices made me feel  so ill that I had to gag up my own lunch. I only forced myself to finish it  because I paid enough for the paperback.  All in all, I'm disappointed and  stunned that anyone could hail this piece of garbage a classic.  Not I.  Save your money - _Angela's Ashes_ seems to be written with a stilted hand  that is anxious to follow in the path of traditional Irish tales of filth  and poverty.Sadly, it doesn't even live up to the worst of the lot.
5 Very well written. I just found the story depressing although it is worth the read. If you are unsure about reading don't be .
4 I'm a huge fiction buff, but , hearing about Angela this and Angela that, I approached the book with a desire  to appreciate more non-fiction.  To be absolutely frank, I found the style of writing very charming and  inquisitively innocent, yet about halfway through the book, I found it a  little pretentious because the style was always like that, never changing.  I suppose I opened the book with a fiction lover's mind.  About  three-quarters through, my interest came back and peaked, and I rushed  helter skelter into the novel, plowing through the rest of it in a mere  hour.  I'm giving it four stars for several reasons: 1) some people may not  appreciate the charming style; it's a most interesting style, but I had  friends who thought it was too much of the same thing, 2) for some people,  the story seems to lack a definitive goal, a definitive plot.  Personally,  I found the book at times amazing.  My interest in it was greatly  unbalanced, but even now, I do conclude that people should read this.  Not  only for the fun of it, but for the experience of it; it is a really  harrowing, hilarious, and uplifting account what some of us don't  experience.
4 Not quite as good as had been recommended to me but I would read it again - a bit different style of writing - Now is the time for all good men to come to the aid of their country - am I at 20 words yet?
5 How Frank McCourt survived all the injustices of his childhood astounds me. This is a story of survival against extraordinary odds.  You will cry, a lot, but you will laugh too and there are such sweet moments that will remind you that there is goodness of human nature even in such droll circumstances.  I could not put this book down! Everyone should read this book!
3 No Title AvailableAvailability: This item is currently unavailable.2 of 3 people found the following review helpful:The Hardships God Puts Us Through., March 5, 2005Frank McCourt wrote the famous bestseller, ANGELA'S ASHES. In this book, you learn about the personality of Angela and the events just prior to her death. His version of the Irish funeral 'doings' at a fancy mortuary in New York whre they partied with lots of beer is almost sacrilege. He had suggesting putting her ashes in a body bag and leaving them on the curb for garbage pickup. He and Frank were in financial straits at the time, but brother Alphie was doing okay. Frank became the possessor of her ashes in an old bean can.Bob Miller wrote this account from McCourt's avid remembrances. Like Eddie Fisher's BEEN THERE, DONE THAT, he reveals the bad with the good. Malachy's narration is spelled almost phonetically, the Irish sayings Americanized, which I guess his fans would get a kick out of -- it reminded me of the old man in 'Brigadoon.'Since I don't watch soap operas I have not recognized him as a young man, nor at the age of 69 when he was diagnosed with cancer. He had a sad life in Ireland, but after coming to America drank his way around the world to forget his past.Part of this book is about the retarded stepdaughter and the experimental program they agreed to at the Willowbrook State School for the Retarded on Staten Island. To get a place for her, they signed consent for her to be used as a guinea pig in a hepatitis program funded by the U. S. Army. The place as described resembled the one in the movie, 'Suddenly Last Summer,' in which Elizabeth Taylor is committed by a demented aunt and she wonders out on a raised landing above a mass of humanity "driven totally mad" by the place in which they were drugged, abused and locked. These things actually existed, and he and his wife Diana witnessed it first hand.He tried to expose the horrible abuse through the media (radio and t.v.). He said, "Media types will come to the 'field of dreams', but don't ask them to cover the plains of nightmare." Finally, they were able to get Geraldo Rivera to tour the back wards with a cameraman. It took them two years to get heard in Court in 1972. It was a historic case, followed by similar suits across the country, that all people have a right to decent human conditions no matter what their mental status.He made his mark in Hollywood and New York in movies and plays, and was host of t.v. and radio talk shows. So I'm sure he has a vast following of those who've seen him -- and read his previous book, A MONK SWIMMING.He was the Boston police lieutenant in 1978 'The Brinks Job' and was in 'Mass Appeal' on Broadway in 1982. Then his soap opera career started in 'Search for Tomorrow,' 'One Life To Live,' 'Ryan's Hope,' etc. Now he has embarked on a career as a writer, or at least a storyteller to beat all. All in all, his is a success story.
3 It was the rave reviews on the back of the book which persuaded me to buy the book.  I am always out to read experiences or stories that are unusual and extraordinary and the reviews cried out, &quot;This is IT! &quot;I  was quite surprised as I read the first few pages.  Firstly, the English  was not standard.  Secondly, there were no punctuation marks which  indicated which parts were speech.  Many atimes I had to reread certain  sentences to get things straight.Technicalities aside, the story was  marginally funny and Frank McCourt's life is quite a sight to behold when  he was a child.  If you want a taste of how difficult life can be, Frank is  the man for you.Although Frank's relatives were not fully developed, you  can picture in your head his almost always drunken father, pitiful mother,  scrawny and hunched-back grandmother, generously-fleshed Aunt Aggie and the  lovable Uncle Pa.See Frank as he nurses his twin brothers as a 4 year  old, steal his first apple and almost die from typhoid.  As with all  growing pains, watch him learn about the &quot;excitement&quot; and be  there with him as he experienced it first with a girl on Carmody  Street.A fine piece of work, very educational.  Pity the punctuation.
5 I've put off reading Angela's Ashes for a year after it's publication as the word from friends whose literary taste I trust made me feel that I wasn't in the right frame of mind to tackle this story.As the product of a  parochial school education(in junior school),I got angrier and angrier as I  relived the cruelty of the Irish nuns who strapped fear into small children  and then terrorised them with the nightmare- producing stories of the  persecution and martyrdom of early christians(except that they were ALWAYS  referred to a Catholics!) To add to his dreadful,poor little life,Francis  had the added burden of an alcoholic father who would rather drink his  wages than feed his starving,malnourished children and a well-meaning but  ineffectual mother who produced babies regularly,only to see them die. I  realise that this is a very emotional book and,undoubtedly a frighteningly  true version of a terrible life,but I still wanted to kick it across the  room to quieten my old anger!
5 After having read this Frank McCourt's incredible story, I honestly feel like I know little Frankie, like he has confided in me. The careful, thorough (but not overdone) detailing in this memoir is superb.The situation traces young Francis McCourt and his brothers living in poverish Ireland during the 1940's. Frank chronicles his entire childhood..the hunger, the loss of the his innocence, school, and the camraderie between the McCourt brothers. The brotherhood is incredibly amusing and the highlight of the book.This book is great. The vividness that Frank uses to describe his own history is amazingly entertaining. If you appreciate character depth and human emotions, this a great book for you.The most astounding aspect is how Mr. McCourt is able to describe himself prior to his loss of innocence and convey the innocence within the diatribe.
4 This is a great book no doubt. The recollection of his childhood with added humor which only hindsight can provide is truly heartrending. No child in this world deserves to grow through this. But I have my own doubts whether all the content was real and not a fiction of his imagination. I did ask some Irish immigrants to the US and they were upset about the stereotyping of the hard nosed Irish Catholic in this book. In many parts, the book seemed to offer whatever you want to hear and not what actually transpired.I read a very similar book about poverty in India told with a distinct sense of humor - &quot;A Fine Balance&quot; by Rohington Mistry. If you enjoyed Angela's Ashes then you will definitely like this one.
5 I've read it twice and loved it...Even though it's about poverty in Ireland, it's not about poverty, it's not about Ireland...it's about the triumph of the human spirit over adversity.  McCourt's writing style is  what lends it the most credibility...in the beginning it has the quality of  a child telling a story and it matures as he does throughout the book.  I  didn't care much for his &quot;afterschool activities&quot; in the later  chapters...the book could have done without them, but I guess the crucial  part of any memoir is the truth through your own eyes.  The last chapter is  perfect!  I'd reccomend to anyone!
5 This book was a wonderful break from the average traditional memoir.  The story is not only told through the eyes of the subject (in this case, young Frank McCourt himself), but it is told through the eyes he had at that time.  For example, when recounting events from his very early childhood, he writes as a very young boy would think.  He doesn't understand death, he doesn't know why his father is an alchoholic, he doesn't know why his mother is always crying.  As the story progresses and he gets older, his perception changes and he begins to see the world with the greater understanding that each passing year brings.In the midst of this tragic tale of poverty and despair, one cannot help but notice the humor.  Oddly enough, this fits in very well with the tale.  We have to laugh as the young 'Frankie' attempts to understand the elements of life (death, poverty, etc.), and does so by creating for himself explanations which, though they seem to us absurd, could easily be conjured by a young boy.The great strength of this book lies in the way Frankie looks at the world.  He lives in horrible circumstances, and as he ages he becomes increasingly aware of this fact, and yet he still manages to find pleasure in life.  He does not, of course, think his life is perfect, but he knows it's HIS life and he seems to accept it.If this book were nothing more than complaining and whining about his poor, miserable childhood, it would be a waste of time.  Angela's Ashes is just the opposite, however.  We truly can see a childhood filled with sadness and poverty, not from the point of view of a grown man looking back, but through the eyes of a dirty little Irish boy.
4 Frank McCourt is commonly credited with revolutionizing the modern memoir. Through his account of a poor Irish upbringing, McCourt opens doors into his life through the perspective of a child. As he matures, his perspective, as well as his actions mature as well.Angela's Ashes is incredibly painful to read; however, this is because McCourt's life was incredibly painful. Do not be discouraged, you are ultimately afforded the most wonderful ending simply by knowing of McCourt's eventual success.
5 This is an incredible, wonderfully written memoir.  It isabout Frank McCourt's childhood in Limerick, Ireland. Hecaptures the poverty, abuse, alcoholism and dysfunction inhis family.  However, he also captures his family's love,acceptance and forgiveness.One scene is unforgettable to me.  The basement floods withsewage and the family is forced to deal with the smell,grossness and the overall disgust.  Frank's mother tellsher children that since they are not living in the basementthat they are in a castle and thus are royalty.  What awonderful metaphor for these children!The depiction of poverty is vivid and accurate.  That thisbook is written from a child's vantage point only provesto make it more miraculous.  This book is truly brilliant.
5 This book has become my all-time favorite book, which is saying something since I avoided it for years and years fearing it would be too depressing.  Depressing it certainly is, but Mr. McCourt knows how to tell a story in a way that draws you in and shuts everything else around you out until you are lost inside the pages.  I literally could not put this book down and the minute I finished it I turned it over and read it again...then ran right out and bought and read 'Tis!Mr. McCourt's candidness and wry humor about the years of hopelessness and despair captured my heart in a way no other book has ever done.  I recommend it to everyone who asks if I "know of a good book".
5 I picked up Angela's Ashes with some dread.  It sounded, and looked, like it would be too depressing to read.  However, though many terrible things happen, through Frank's eyes, it is all readable.  This book is written so eloquently and with such fine execution that you wonder how Frank can recall so many emotions from his childhood.  McCourt captures the essence of childhood in an extraordinary manner.  Sometimes the descriptions were so true that I found myself brought to tears at childhood memories that I had forgotten.  While the subject matter isn't the easiest to deal with, the way McCourt writes the novel makes it palatable.  I don't know if I could have stuck with it under most circumstances.  However, McCourt is a pure genius, and there are even some quite comedic scenes in this masterpiece.  My recommendation: A must read.
5 I have read Angela's Ashes a long time go. I am glad I can read it again  on my Kindle fire.
5 I avoided this book for two reasons. The hype. More often than not I am disappointed by highly-hyped books and movies. And, I thought it would depress and exhaust me. But as with Betty Smith's A Tree Grows In Brooklyn, you become so engrossed with the characters that you aren't weighed down by the crushing poverty. It almost seems an afterthought, a tiny detail, yet it is what forms the characters. Both of these books, while written 60 years apart, are written beautifully and skillfully.
4 As a person of Irish descent, I decided it was high time I read Angela's Ashes by Frank McCourt and to be honest, from the first chapter to the last I was ready to throw the book against the wall. In fact, after the end of each chapter, I would throw the book and scream. Not because it was a horribly written book, but because it brought out emotions about my Irish descent that I didn't know I had.Although sometimes comically written, McCourt's childhood memories in Limerick, Ireland, primarily portrayed appalling living conditions, irresponsible parents, and ignorance beyond belief.In my opinion, most of this ignorance was from the ridiculously undying devotion to the Catholic Church. Even though, the church repeatedly slammed the door into the faces of poor, they still believed.I was very depressed when I finished the book and if I'd had one wish in my life, it would have been to change my Irish last name. But, then I asked myself, so, why did I keep reading? I was hoping for a happy ending, which it was...sort of. But, for other reasons, too.To credit McCourt, he did write a compelling book or I wouldn't have picked it up off the floor night after night. Every stereotypical Irish joke is supported (i.e., drunken fathers, constantly pregnant mothers, etc.), which were hopefully attributed to the times.But I also learned about the pride of the Irish during some of the worst treatment and struggles that one country can endure. If nothing else, I've gained knowledge of the strength of the Irish. And meaning of those fight songs I hear at the Irish pubs. &#9786;My recommendation: it's a fascinating read, but if your ancestors were Irish immigrants, prepare yourself for an emotional roller coaster ride. It's maddenly worth it.
5 Right from the begining, from the first word I felt the power of the story.  It is captivating and shocking at the same time.  Did I know all that before?  I guess I did.  Did I care?  I guess I did not.  And now I feel as I was shaken by a very powerful hand and my eyes have opened.  Ireland and the Irish blaim the British for all their troubles but they should blaim religion for that first.  Poverty, ignorance, alcoholism and the general misery should be all attributed to religion.This book is quite well composed and it transferres you to the real depth of the human tragedy.  Hunger, death, the numness...  Men say a lot of promising words but they cannot keep the jobs even if they have one.  Catholics, Protestants...  What the difference?  One drinks his wages away and another one take care of the family...  Is that the difference?  This book raised so many questions in my head.Yes, I think we all should read it.  This is an important book.
4 This is a unique memoir that harkens back to the privations and hardships previously described in the novels of Charles Dickens. The author Frank McCourt began his reflections while preparing to return his mother's cremains to her native Ireland for burial. Hence, the title "Angela's Ashes." The loss of his mother resulted in this award winning book.Although McCourt was a native of New York, during the early years of the Great Depression his Irish immigrant parents made the fateful decision to leave the United States in the mistaken belief that their prospects would be better if they returned to Ireland. As McCourt wrote, they should never have left America. The grinding poverty that they experienced upon their return to Limerick proved to be far worse than the hard times that the impoverished family had known in New York. Ireland lacked the ability to provide any of the relief measures available to America's poor. Relations between the Irish Free State and Great Britain were bad throughout the period of McCourt's childhood and the economic sanctions imposed by the British on Irish exports made bad matters worse.The entire family had to live in a tiny council home, which was little more than a hovel, opposite the communal lavatory which served the residents of an entire street. Every occupant of the block had to empty their slop buckets into the same filthy commode. Whenever the plumbing failed or heavy rains flooded their residence, the filthy sewage would back up into the McCourt's living quarters.McCourt's alcoholic father was originally from Ulster. His in laws never fully accepted him nor did they stop criticizing his wife for having married a Northerner. He struggled to support his family, but he was an unreliable drunkard in a time when the most reliable men were hard pressed to remain employed. The family frequently tried to subsist on the minimal dole available from the Dublin government and forced to beg for charity from the St. Vincent DePaul Society. In order to obtain this meager assistance, applicants were subjected to humiliating inquiries.The McCourts were oftentimes without the basic necessities of life and constantly poorly fed and clothed. Eventually, McCourt's father deserted his wife and children. Then things got appreciably worse. Frank McCourt counted himself lucky if he had a meal of potatoes. His mother's sole luxury was borrowing or finding a penny with which to buy a Woodbine cigarette.There is much to recommend in this autobiography, but it is not easy to read. McCourt does not follow conventional rules of punctuation. He never uses quotation marks, so it is confusing for the reader to understand what words were spoken and what words represent internal thoughts. There is a good deal of repressed anger in the book. Under the political leadership of Eamon De Valera, the role of the Catholic Church was emphasized in Ireland's political and cultural institutions. McCourt was naturally embittered by his impoverished childhood and his residual resentment for the Church is obvious.Ultimately, this book is a testament to the survival of the human spirit. McCourt is able to escape from Limerick and return to New York and begin a new life. There is some humor to be found amongst the buckets of salty tears, vomit, feces and spilt pints of Guinness, but this book is devoid of the Irish travel brochure romance that is so familiar to Irish-Americans. McCourt and his family (his brother is character actor Malachy McCourt) are to be admired and respected for their indominatable spirits. Lesser persons would have been broken and destroyed by such trials.
5 I read McCourts book and it is so real. It brought me back to my Irish roots. I could see my great grandfather in so many of the men who went off and left their families behind with no money . All because of the drink. It was the women who were the back bone of the Irish. Just as it is with other ethic groups .And of course the Catholic church shows itself worthless again and more like the mafia then saving souls.May their souls rot in hell.Mr. McCourt captures the times , the emotion, the pain and the laughs like few have done in the past. Read this and all his works as well as his brothers books. His name is Malachy McCourt.YOu won't want to put the book down. One of my ten best ever.
5 I'd definitely recommend this to a friend.  I might even re-read it since it has been a couple years.
5 I have to say that the only way one wouldn't love this book is if they grew up with Mike and Carol Brady and then had their soul stolen from them.  I think the brilliance of this book is the narrative in which it is  written.  You hear his voice in every sentence, you hear him as he spoke in  whatever stage of his life he was in.  People were like he described,  people lived like he described, children suffered like he did.  The fact  that this man came out alive and smiling is purely a miracle.  Buy it at  once and then buy 'Tis.  Afterwards, write Frank and beg him for more!
5 What a depressing yet uplifting tale told from the eldest childs perspective (Mr Frank McCourt) narrating his families harrowing life in hilarious detail while growing up in Limerick, Ireland.Dispite their  tragic circumstances, Frank and his brother (I hesitate to use family,  youll see why when you read this excellent story for yourself! ) manage to  rise above it all using humour and streetwise intelligence to see them  through.  Their Mother and Father never manage to cope well, both trying to  run from their problems instead of facing them, thankfully dispite all the  awful things they go through Frank is able to colour the greyness of their  lives with his brilliant mind.Franks description of family and school  life is so funny that rather than weeping tears and bemoaning their fate  (and there was plenty to cry about!  believe me! )I was laughing instead,  this is a sure sign of excellent writing, that though you sympathise with  their circumstances, your able to laugh freely, even when their lives are  at their most desperate.Thankyou Mr McCourt for this Depressing yet  wonderfully told tale of an Impoverished Irish/Catholic family (certainly  made me appreciate my own upbringing all the more! )BUY IT READ IT JUST  GET IT NOW! , ITS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!
2 Even though it wasn't a page-turner, I enjoyed this book at least half way through because it was written so candidly.  However, by the end of the book, I found more reasons to dislike it than I did to like it.#1. Yes, as many others have said, it was supremely depressing.  I can tolerate a lot of depressing literature as long as there are small victories, or occasional heartwarming lessons, or true humor toward the situation, but I found none of that with this book.  I'm not sure what had others "roaring with laughter."  The most I could find were tiny oddities and ironies that could render no more than a smirk.#2. Can you really win a Pulizer with that many references to masturbation?  I really could have done wihout that.#3. This was the most disappointing of all.  I realize that it was an autobiography, and, therefore, isn't supposed to have a regular plot, but it did need some form of resolution.  After reading a novel, one shouldn't have to read the sequel to find out the ending.  Perhaps a good editor could have helped Mr. McCourt cut away some of the the masturbation so that he had room to finish the story.
4 Obviously, and rather slyly, Frank McCourt informs us that reading about a happy childhood isn't worth our time. Geez, with all the hype about the misery portrayed in the book, I would have expected the majority of McCourt  children to be have been wiped out. Instead, the grim reaper gets only 3  out of 7, and the reader feels cheated. Okay, maybe not that cheated.So,  McCourt's memoir treats us to 360+ pages of misery. Starvation.  Desperation. Drunkenness. Classism. It would all be pretty unbearable,  except that there's the sly humour poking out here and there. Can we really  trust Frank? He knows that the more miserable he can make his life the more  credibility he has.He treats us to a variety of scenes, many of which  we've seen before, in, oh, Oliver Twist, Sister Mary Ignatius Explains It  All, Rachel and Her Children. It's all very fresh though. I'm willing to  give him the benefit of the doubt -- either his life was appallingly  miserable, with enough Irish charm and humour to make up for the lack of  nutritious sustenance; or McCourt himself has enough charm and humour to  repackage a few dozen literary cliches as a tragic but uplifting  memoir.Either way, I'm never touching a Guiness ever again. And I'll  probably finish 'Tis pretty soon. And I'll still dock McCourt for failing  to use quotation marks -- an annoying device that fails to communicate  anything worth the reading confusion it causes.
4 McCourt's childhood memoirs make for a superb read. A number of people are greatly saddened by the abhorrent conditions in which McCourt, his family, and many, many others had to suvive. Alcoholic father unable to hold down a job, abject poverty, deplorable living conditions, mother doing everything she can to put food on the table and limited clothes on their backs, death of siblings, church washing its hands of them to avoid embarassment, begging for food, just the daily struggle in mind numbing poverty. Through it all the telling of the bigger story: the strength of humanity in the face of adversity. And here is where McCourt delivers...even in the most desparate of situations the will to struggle on wins the day (people are facing these conditions, and much worse, elsewhere in the world today)...through it all there is the ability to draw from the well of humour, companionship, and pure bloody mindedness.If you are shocked, stunned, depressed by what MCCourt relates then I'd recommend you go and visit some of the Third World countries - McCourts story is their reality.A wonderfully written book. Is it all true? Having spoken with someone that knows him personally then No - hence it being labelled memoirs. Does that detract from it being a good read? No. Pay heed to the circumstances of poverty and squalor that the book relates but most importantly take a leaf from McCourt and laugh.A superb book.
5 McCourt shows that there is humor in just about anything in thisnovel, and he does so by inviting you into the mind of a child.The humor of exceedingly sad passages is accomplished bybringing about an understanding of the young Frank McCourt'sanalysis of the situation, often innocent, often insightful,often both. One of the sad parts of this book, at least to me,is the gradual losing of innocence as the book progresses,particularly in the final third or so. We want the maincharacter to remain the lovable child he was at the beginning ofthe story, but he does not. That's because we're dealing withreal life, not a fairy tale. Life just doesn't always work outthat way, and that's something we either accept or we wind up ina dream-world. How many of our own life stories would fit inwith the sensibilities of all of their readers? Over all, a verycompelling read, especially the unabridged audio edition read bythe author.
5 The best memoirs detail an extraordinary life (either good or bad) or use humor, or both. Frank McCourt's does both, though perhaps the humor is more prevalent than anything extraordinary. In fact, what McCourt writes in his memoir, Angela's Ashes, was probably typical for a poor Irish family during the Great Depression/World War II era. Perhaps, in some ways, it's typical of a poor family today, though I suppose a moment in time will never be typical in comparison to another. McCourt never had an iPhone, anyway. What makes Angela's Ashes so extraordinary is that McCourt is able to make the day-to-day life of his childhood so fascinating, and his ability to write about some terrible life experiences with humor instead of self-pity.Reading Angela's Ashes, you never get a sense of dreary gloom. Sure, things were bad, but McCourt nonetheless writes about his difficult childhood with a sense of nostalgia. And humor. Lots of humor. You never get the sense of a man who feels sorry for himself, who is trying to make excuses for a possibly later difficult adult life. He describes moments that would drive many people to tears in a way that instead drives them to laughter. The memoir also never aims to preach. Frank is a boy who loves to read, but McCourt never aims to proselytize his own strength of character due to this attribute. It seems to be a way to escape the difficulties of life and see other worlds. In fact, the memoir never really feels like a memoir, as McCourt never makes self-referential comments nor does he point to his future.This is the second memoir by McCourt that I have read. The first was Teacher Man, his last, so I always knew what sort of life he would lead later. Knowing that made this an even more extraordinary read, as it turns out Angela's Ashes is the beginnings of a rags to riches story. That a young boy in some of the worst conditions of poverty could later become a successful teacher and then become rich writing a novel is an amazing feat. Also having read Teacher Man first, I saw a glimpse of a different sort of Frank McCourt, a McCourt who did not view the rest of his adult life with the same kind of nostalgia he gives his childhood here. It's amazing the difference in tone between the two books. In Teacher Man there's a sort of smugness, a narcissism, and poor attempts at humor that made it difficult for me to enjoy. Angela's Ashes seems, then, a surprise success from somebody not quite so full of himself as he would become later. Rather than nostalgia, he viewed his teaching career almost as a wasted life, one made complete only by the success of his memoir. That said, Angela's Ashes is an enjoyable, funny, and sometimes heartbreaking story about a normal, yet extraordinary life.
5 This is a rare autobiography where you are given the subject's eyes and ears to experience, seemingly first-hand, their unimaginable and tragic reality.  McCourt describes everything in its raw form, as if straight from his senses to the page, without any filtering in between.Frank McCourt grew up in Ireland in a very poor family, his parents loved him, but they could not provide for him or his many sublings.  This is perhaps the first story and can recall which so clearly states that loving a child is not enough, rather to be a good parent you must be able to provide for them financially.This book is not all depressing, and at times it is completely hilarious.  And in the back of your mind, it's always comforting to know that eventually the little boy will grow up to become a best-selling author, but try not to think about the other 99% of the poor children that never get out.
3 I'm not sure what to say about this book.  It is a book that stays with you - I read it over a month ago and still find myself thinking about it.  On one hand it is horribly depressing, the life these people had was just awful.  But I'm not sure if this is the talent of the author or just human nature, but much like the character you find yourself continuing to read, because something good has to happen eventually, right?  Doesn't it?  So like the character continues to plug on with his sorry existence, you plug on reading.
2 Not my favorite book. The story was very depressing. The constant Irish slang got old fast. The book ended like the author just got tired of writing about these pour pathetic people. No resolution, what does Angel's Ashes have to do with it. She was still alive unfortunately when the book ended.
5 I really enjoyed Angela's ashes. It was heart wrenching,sincere, happy, cynical all at once. A portrait of honesty, Mr McCourt does not gloss over the character's flaws and is painfully honest about his alcoholic neglectful father whom he loves when he is sober and obviously despises when he is drunk and falls to support his family.I enjoyed every last page though I wish there was an afterword relating Frank's future endeavors.
4 Tale of true poverty and perseverance.  I would recommend this for any teen who roams the malls wishing they had an unlimited budget and who thinks they are poor.  It emphasizes reading as the key to escape poverty.  It tells of a different time in Ireland, far enough removed, so it can be appreciated as a story from the past.  Yet some of the problems are still very relevant to teens growing up now.
5 Frankie McCourt is the oldest of six children, three of whom survive.  This reader wonders how three children could possibly survive such a childhood.Frankie's conception in America, the result of a "knee-trembler" between Malachy McCourt and Angela Sheehan, puts Angela in an "interesting condition," which incites her fat Irish-American cousins to force a marriage.  However, Angela is from southern Ireland and her family forever discounts Malachy as "having the strange manner of those Protestant northern Irish people."Malachy's affliction with "the Irish problem," means the family never has enough -- money, food, or attention, because it all goes for "the pints." Angela is devastated by the death of the baby  daughter, Margaret, probably because of starvation. Young Frankie and his little brother Michael never quite know from day to day if they will have anything to eat or not.  A good meal to them is usually a slice of fried bread, with tea sipped from a fruit jar.  Angela's cousins notify her mother in Ireland of the situation, and somehow the Widow Sheehan scrapes up money to bring the family home.  However, Angela's Irish relatives have troubles of their own and aren't able to provide much assistance.  Their life in Limerick is even worse than it was in America.Frankie McCourt tells his story in straightforward manner without offering judgment or opinion.  That's just the way it was, he says, in his Irish brogue, offering only a few songs in his true clear baritone to lighten the stories with songs of his childhood in Ireland.Angela descends by degree to the deepest depths of humiliation, from the dole to begging. The family moves from house to wretched house, usually carrying everything they own in their arms.  "Respectable people live on a street,"  Frankie's schoolteacher tells him.  "You live in a Lane."  Living quarters are less than adequate and McCourt spares us no details: particularly the stench of the one toilet shared by an entire lane, that latrine just outside the McCourt's front door. The family's flooded first floor makes the second floor an oasis, which they dub "Italy."They must find a few lumps of coal every day to heat their room and warm their food. They must contend with Malachy's endless pints and Angela's addiction to smoking woodbines and her understandable depression.  The family must find food --- onions, bread, water, an egg if they're lucky.  Frankie recalls with relish the good day when, after the death of yet another baby, neighbors brought the family a pot of mashed potatoes with butter. The children had enough to eat that night.Those rare times when he had work, Malachy McCourt would come home late from the Pub on payday, line up the boys and extract promises that they would die for Ireland. He drank up the dole, his wages, and even money meant for the new baby --- putting himself "beyond the beyonds," as Angela says. Yet he escapes vilification in the book because on his good days, in spite of his alcoholism Malachy loves his children.  He inspires the boys by telling them over and over the story of the great Irish warrior Ka-hoo-lan (Cuchulain).There is the emotional pain inflicted by the insults of the charity officers, and the physical pain of street fights, Frankie's infected eyes, the fleas in the mattress, the danger from marauding rats, and a shortage of medical care. Wearing shoes repaired with tire treads, stealing a bag of bananas for his twin baby brothers, begging a pig's head for Christmas dinner, and searching the pubs for his father, Frank endures poverty, near-starvation and the unforgiveable cruelty of relatives and neighbors.After urging by Angela, Malachy finally takes a job with the hated English during the war.  "After the way the English have treated us Irish for seven hundred years!" Malachy storms, "You want me to go to their side?"The boys are sad to see their father go, but are sustained by the hope of finally having enough money to pay for their basic needs.  Instead, Angela and the children are worse off than before when Malachy spends his paychecks in English pubs instead of sending the cash telegram to his family in Limerick.Frankie McCourt leavens his story with humor and fascinating details, like the story of his first love, Patricia, whom he meets while they are both hospitalized; Frankie with Typhoid; Patricia with Diphtheria.  Patricia shares her books with Frankie, but boys and girls are not allowed to talk to each other in the Catholic hospital so the Nuns move Frankie to the top floor where he is the only patient in a room of empty beds, unused since the plague.  After a few days, the janitor brings Frankie the news that Patricia has died.  Frankie recovers and eventually works his way up to "messenger boy" delivering telegrams.  He delivers a telegram to a young girl with "the galloping consumption."  His friends tell him that sickness causes a young person to want to experience everything immediately, so the gal is not responsible for indiscretions.  She introduces him to "the excitement" and Frankie visits Teresa's house regularly.  One day Frankie sees a black wreath on the door, learns that Teresa is deceased and Frankie is certain he has caused Teresa to go straight to Hell.  Frank struggles with that burden, which causes a conflict for him in his religion.This book is filled with references to the Catholic Church, from the difficulties of confession for a young boy, to the conflicts between the Protestants and Catholics in Ireland, to the "collections" for boys who make their first confession, to the concern that the Church does not really help the members with their problems and apparently does not "love" the poor.  Yet Frankie never criticizes the leaders for shutting doors in his face.At confession, Frankie admits to stealing food because his father drank the food money away. His confessor responds, "My child, I sit here. I hear the sins of the poor. I assign the penance. I bestow absolution. I should be on my knees washing their feet."It is this attitude that offers the dominant flavor in this Irish stew.
3 I am searching for more pages, one final chapter. This cannot be how it ends.No, I'm not longing for more because this story was so captivating or the prose beautifully poetic. I seriously can't believe that this whole story leads up to such a lame let-down of an ending. Did I truly just read 362 pages of childhood memories relating heart-wrenching tales of impoverishment and neglect only to be reassured in the end that his teenage sexual discovery was satisfactory? Really? That's the moral of the story?Even before the worst book ending of all time, this memoir was mediocre. McCourt seems to have memories that stretch back to the time before he was born and include great detail of his toddler years during the Depression. If that kind of thing doesn't bother you in nonfiction, than there is still the complete lack of quotation marks to drive you crazy. I'm sure this is supposed to be his &#34;personal writing style.&#34; I don't buy it. It's just poor grammar.Now that I've got that out, I can admit that some of McCourt's tales of hunger, sickness, alcoholism, and death in WWII era Ireland are certainly touching, even heartbreaking, but unfortunately not uncommon. I kept waiting for the moment in his life that made his story special. I guess it was the point where he wrote a book and made millions of dollars.McCourt's writing is quite good, if you don't mind the lack of punctuation. He makes good use of a first person present tense narration that is extremely difficult to do well. The voice changes as he moves from 3 years old to the end where he is 19. He does a fabulous job of showing the reader each person he interacts with through the eyes of a child.Opportunities existed for this to have real impact. Frank struggles with his faith when he gets old enough to question why God lets some suffer and even die. He works to pull himself out of the poverty that most of his family (relatively) happily wallows in. Unfortunately, the author spends just as much time on teenage masturbation and fantasies. Such potential, only to be a complete disappointment.I know people adore this book and I had certainly hoped to, but it comes across as a rather bland and unfinished life story.
5 This book is a very harsh look at a poor family, but lots of funny moments, too. The writer's memories are of his struggling mother, his alcoholic father, siblings, school, and the Catholic church. It's a miracle that they survived. This book is a fairly easy read and I clipped right along with it. It's the first book I've read on my Kindle and I really enjoyed it.
5 It was a very enlightening story.  Makes you appreciate everything you  have ever had.  It is hard to believe that anyone can go through something  like this.A story of true grit and merit. Thoroughly enjoyed the story.
3 I found it overly long and depressing. A lot of the novel seemed boringly repetitive. I think it was supposed to be an inspiring story of rising above horrible childhood circumstances, but it was a story of learning to be amoral instead of turning to the One who could have made the story a real story of inspiration. And as I said in the title I think it was meant to relate to boys and men, not women.
4 This audio book was very good....especially entertaining with the author, Frank McCourt, reading it with his Irish accent.  Really got you feeling that you were actually in Ireland.  I recommend that you watch the movie after reading the book.  The movie was good....left out a few things that were in the book but followed most all of the important stuff that was in it.
5 McCourt prepares us for the difficult journey through &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; when he states that &quot;of course it was a miserable childhood. The happy ones are hardly worth the while&quot;. We know we are  going to experience some pretty unpleasant things but we also know that the  narrator survived and that, like him, we will get through them with a sense  of humor and irony.Angela's Ashes contains some pretty rough stuff.  Hunger, sickness, death, neglect, abuse, persecution, and guilt are the  standard features throughout the book. Just when you think things are bad,  they get worse. The family goes from a hovel to homelessness and the mother  goes from poverty to out and out begging. When they finally take up  residence with the mother's cousin it isn't really clear whether she sleeps  with him out of need, affection, or as a form or rent payment. You might  wonder if this book is so miserable then why is it worth  reading?McCourt's writing, is direct, lucid, and at times ironic. He  chronicles his miserable childhood with little sentimentality and utterly  no self-pity. Although McCourt's prose contains considerable anger toward  the trauma and occasional injustice of his childhood, he captures the  people and environment with clarity and humor. McCourt clearly has an  intense curiosity about people and a keen perception of character. I  suspect that these qualities played a vital role in his survival.I  recommend this book for several reason. First, it is superbly written. No  matter how interesting a story is, I generally won't read it if the writing  is bad. But McCourt has an ear for dialog and an instinct for language.  Secondly, McCourt's chronicle teaches us a lot about poverty, survival and  how well off most of us are. These are all very important lessons. Finally,  I loved the way &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; completely transported me to  another time and place. So many writers try and fail to do this, but  McCourt did so with seemingly no effort.&quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; has  also been made into a film which really isn't bad. But it pales in  comparison to the book.
5 I've been listening to the unabridged audio version of Frank McCourt's tale and can't wait to get into the car -- I'm finding all sorts of excuses to go do an errand. I'm almost at the end now and while it's a terribly sad  story -- it's a real triumph of the human spirit.  How people of that time  and situation carried on as they did with so little to brighten their lives  was very moving.  It's an incredibly well done story.  The fact that Frank  himself is actually narrating it, adding in the singing of all the songs (I  find myself thinking about Roddy McCauley et al, long after I've turned the  tape off) with the wonderful lyrical tone to his voice makes it all the  more real.  I highly recommend this as a great listen.  Not sure I could  have endured reading it for all it's tragedy, but it comes alive with the  listen!
5 Angela's Ashes gives you a deep and haunting look into the author as a child and shows how he perceived his habitus. It is a story in which it seems the only medicine for the suffering is to be found in the giving and taking of lashings of wit. The wit seems be the coping mechanism. Angela's Ashes may give you a glimpse into an Irish soul. If you are Irish and are of the same generation as the author it could possibly make you feel young again. The past is ever present in this fantastic book.
5 It took Frank McCourt 20 years to write it, but it only took me two days to read it, and I'll never forget it.  I'm not one of those people who give out 5 stars easily but this was truly one of the best books I've ever read.  I feel like I really know Mr. McCourt and the Ireland that he knew.  I cried with him and I laughed with him.  It's a story about family, love, poverty, religion, human nature.  I learned so much from reading this book.  My husband and I agree that we are going to share this book with our children as soon as they are old enough just so they can see how lucky they are to live in a prosperous time (not that we are rich people - but I know our children have never experienced hunger the way Mr. McCourt and his family have).  It's not how much you have, but what you make of it.I have also learned about writing from reading this book.  His organization is superb and his writing style is very engaging.  Even the saddest parts are written with wit and a sharpness that transcends beyond the emotions to get to the human truth.  I cannot praise this book enough.  If nothing else, read it and step into a great person's shoes for a while.
3 Many people find this book uplifting and enlightening aswell as upsetting and grave. I found it rather interesting. Although the start was very slow for me on a personal basis I found that I got deeper into the book. I had  to very careful or I'd fall out of place and make myself find the book  boring but luckily I managed to keep a steady hold. You shouldn't get to  into depths with the book and let yourself hover over it at a certain  distance or the book will not cover what it is meant to.  The lives in this  book have been brought back to life so enthusiastically that you feel as if  you're a spirit or presence that doesn't exist-watching the actually scenes  happening. I haven't even watched the movie! Each word in this book is  clear and soft and it is amazingly grand and realistic even the cursing!~ I  gave it three stars because it's got a rough basis and is rather difficult  to get into. The edition that I had had a lot of Irish in it aswell  ...language differences-so I felt that other people unlike myself (I've  lived in the UK most of my life) may find it rather confusing.  But I must  say that each and every expression is welcomed with a nod and smile and  that thought that seems to say, &quot;I SO know what you mean!&quot; and  nod again. It is one book that you can see is from a true life.  Great for  anyone adult looking for a decent read in a different time.
5 McCourt opens a world of poverty and neglect with the hindsight of many years and the perspective of the young boy he was.Although, in some respects, he was a failure through many of his teaching years, and a lousy husband--his third book, Teacher Man--the plan he executed to get to America from the time he was 16 was awesome and awe inspiring.  It was put perfectly when he described the second bank account (a secret account) he had with money that wasn't for supporting his mother and brothers; "...even if we were all going to starve to death I'd never touch a penny of it."
5 If not for his sense of humor, would Frank McCourt have survived his childhood? This is a wonderful memoir filled with love. Never does McCourt seem to blame or point fingers at his parents and their human failures. It reads more like a historical 'this is how it was for us' tone than whining. Be prepared for a roller coaster of emotions that range from hilarious incidents to tears and heart-twisters.Chrissy K. McVayAuthor of 'Souls of the North Wind'
4 I would recommend this book. It gives the author's account of growing up very poor in Ireland and just his family's basic survival. It was depressing at time and I felt frustration with the father character but that just shows I was immersed in the story.
5 McCourt speaks to the reader through his childhood voice in this splendid,  moving, and thought-provoking autobiography.  McCourt begins the story as a  four-year-old living in New York City with his parents and three younger  brothers.  The poverty stricken Irish family is unable to make ends meet in  America and so they head back to Ireland in hopes of survival.They  settle in Limerick where McCourt's mother Angela grew up.  Malachy McCourt,  the father in the story, claims that he will find work and support the  family.  However, Malachy's love of alcohol prevents him from finding or  keeping any gainful employment.  When he does work, he takes his wages and  goes to the bars and drinks until all the money is gone.  Meanwhile, the  family is hungry, the children are wearing shoes with holes, and Angela  sinks into a deep depression but remains obedient to her husband because of  her Catholic faith.  The family moves around Limerick frequently, renting  dirty rooms with flea infested bedding, living on the floors in small  houses owned by relatives, and even renting a house in which the bottom  floor is constantly being flooded with neighborhood sewage.  The family  comes face to face with illness, death, starvation, and ridicule.  The low  point strikes when Angela must resort to begging on the streets to help her  family survive.All the while, McCourt has the reader grow with him  through the ages of four to nineteen.  He shares the Irish tales he grew up  with, the feelings he had toward his dyfunctional parents, his opinion of  the Catholic Church, and the good and bad lessons he learned from his harsh  schoolmasters.  Never does McCourt wallow in self-pity, rather he presents  the facts of his life in an honest, poignant manner.  Despite the despair,  it seems that McCourt has no regrets about his upbringing, for he was a  child and had no control of the situation.  As he grew, however, he came to  the realization that he could begin to change things for the better.  Unlike his father, he became eager to work.  He struggled to support his  mother and younger siblings in his teen years with after school jobs.  He  educated himself through reading and observation.  He set goals and  priorities and didn't give up until he reached them.McCourt takes what  is tragic and presents it in a beautiful, descriptive language that leaves  the reader spellbound.  His story is obviously written unselfishly and is  told to show that triumph can be the end result of tragedy.  Each  individual has the power to rise above and make his or her life meaningful.  This is the essence of McCourt's message.  A message you will not forget  after reading Angela's Ashes.
5 This is one of the most spellbinding tales of childhood ever told, so much so that it even won a Pulitzer Prize. "Angela's Ashes" tells the story of the McCourt family's life in Ireland, a hard-scrabble life of extreme poverty that reads more like a novel than the true story of someone's life. Yet, despite such unbelievable circumstances (and McCourt chronicles them all: the harshness of the church, discrimination based on an impoverished life, deprivation of even the bare necessities of life, a home so shoddy the upstairs is declared "Italy" because it is warmer and drier than the rest of the house), this is an amazing, even uplifting tale.McCourt tells of a life without shoes, of a father whose hope leaves when he cannot feed his family and instead turns to drink, and of First Communion and all the joys that might accompany any small bit of good fortune. Even more memorable is the approach McCourt takes: direct, revealing all the flaws and all the magic of childhood. He never sugarcoats anything, never makes any bitter judgments. He merely tells the events as he remembers them. And that makes this book a sincere, lovely story for all.
5 This is probably the most pivotal book I have read in my entire life.  And I have read a lot of books.  Frank writes so well that at parts in the memoir I almost felt that I was experiencing what he was.  If you ever read a memoir, there is none better and more thought-provoking than this one.  Get it! Read it! And let it change your life!
5 This is absolute heaven, to hear Frank McCourt read his own life story with that glorious accent!  My favorite nonfiction book of all time, and favorite audiobook.However, BUYER BEWARE;  I ordered the unabridged version, and was sent the abridged version.  When I returned it to Amazon, I only received $1.99 out of my $10.00 purchase price.  So, absolutely have this in your collection; just make sure you get every delicious word in the unabridged format.
5 Charles Dickens once said, &quot;In the little world in which children have their existence, whoever brings them up, there is nothing so finely perceived and so finely felt, as injustice. It may be only a small injustice the child can be exposed to; but the child is small; and its world is small.&quot; Angela's Ashes amounts to a brilliant recollection of childhood injustice which is indeed... LARGE! As I read the book, I was appalled at the depth of poverty that Frank McCourt and his family endured, and yet, I can't count the number of times I actually laughed out loud at the &quot;way&quot; in which the story is told. I've never read anything so simultaneously light and weighty. McCourt is witty, and is always in character, and that character is the child who was an eye-witness to every event. (An intriguing, fiercely narrative writing style is consistent throughout the book. ie., there are never any quotation marks).The story is a powerfully moving disclosure of the perils of alcoholism. If it wasn't for the fact that Frank's father could not walk PAST a pub, the family would not have been so destitute. What little money Malachy McCourt earns is forever spent on alcohol, and the amazing thing is that it is spent shamelessly. Mother and children practically starve while dad staggers home in a drunken stupor night after night. Frank says of his father's false promises... &quot;He'll give us a nickel for ice cream if we promise to die for Ireland and we promise but we never get the nickel.&quot;  Injustice.In my opinion, the redeeming majesty of this memoir is that through it we learn a wondrous fact... that shamelessness, irresponsibility, and stupidity do not necessarily have to be handed down to the next generation. Frank broke the mold, and chose self-awareness as his aspiration. I believe that the crucial turning point in his life came when, at the age of eleven he was convalescing at a hospital and came to the conclusion that &quot;it's lovely to know the world can't interfere with the inside of your head.&quot; As readers of Angela's Ashes, we become the grateful recipients of this precocious revelation.Mr. McCourt has received much recognition for his book, and all of it is deserved. I have no idea what he has gained monetarily from its publication, but somehow I think it's a bit more than his aforesaid promised nickel. Way to go. You are an inspiration to the world.
5 I saw the author on the Today Show several years ago.  I have read this book twice and have seen the movie. Both are great.  This guy went through so much as a kid but can tell his story with a dry sense of humor that I love. He's come a long way since living in the slums of Ireland!
4 Born on American soil to Irish parents who return to Ireland during the Great Depression, Frankie is the oldest of 7.  He understands poverty, hunger and death before he's old enough to go to school. As dire as things are, young  Frankie has a  unique and often humorous perspective on the Catholic religion, right and wrong, sex, family dynamics and the overall human condition. What I didn't understand was the title of the book!!!
5 When Frank McCourt was teaching high school English in America his students suggested he should publish a book of the stories from his youth that he sometimes told them.  The result is &#34;Angela's Ashes.&#34;  Angela was McCourt's mother.  The book was originally intended to end with Frank and his brother taking her ashes back to Limerick, to her family's burial ground.  But it got too long, so was split into two books, leaving a rather enigmatic title for the first volume.  I think it would have made more sense to reverse the titles of the two books, calling this one &#34; 'Tis &#34; and the second &#34;Angela's Ashes.&#34;  Either way, it's a wonderful and absorbing personal memoir.  I much prefer listening to the author's reading of it in the audio form.  His Irish accent is like music to the ear.
3 it was a good book .. really showed how people survive in extreme poverty.. sad.  but the ending left you hanging.. and i like good endings.
5 What a great book to stummble upon.  The raw emotional pain felt while reading was heartbreaking.  It was a page turner.Got to the end and wanted more.  So I purchased book 2.
5 In an amazing way Mr.McCourt is able to present his thoughts as a child in the mature age he now is; There were moments that I cried reading this book and many others that I laughed out loud (being in Frankfurt International Airport as well) and I think that we all know that not many scripts can make a person laugh out loud in public; It's amazing, fulfilling, sad and funny, but most of all, a life statement and a good written one; I highly recommend it............
5 Angela's Ashes is tragically wonderful, as seen through the eyes of a child coping and becoming a young adult filled with despair, poverty, death, and an alcoholic, jobless father.I've read this book twice and each time I felt it hard to put the book down, after reading Angela's Ashes the first time, I vacationed in Ireland and toured Limerick, this has made Angela's Ashes even more meaningful for me.Even though this book is very sad, there are a few humorous parts in it, and just like Frank McCourt writes in the first page "the happy childhood is hardly worth your while" kind of sets this book off to relive all that McCourt lived through and survived. I whole-heartedly recommend this book.
3 This memoir describes Mr McCourt's difficult childhood in Ireland. There are quite a few entertaining and intersting passages but they are far outnumbered by page after page describing the same things.Some, but not all, of the topics that are repeated ad nauseum are -His father spending the family's dole money on beer, coming home drunk and making the children promise to die for Ireland.The children having to go down the road to search for coal and turf in order to start a fire.Masturbation is wrong and young McCourt worries aout going to Hell for it.The neighborhood lavatory outside the family's door is terribly smelly.The people in Ireland have strong negative feelings about the English.The family has very little to eat - often such things as bread soaked in tea, a slice of tomato or a bit of ham. A holiday treat is a pig's head which is embarrising to buy but all that they can afford.Protestants and unbaptised children will all go to Hell.I liked the book through the first half but after that I found myself skimming over pages because they were not saying anything that hadn't already been covered numerous times before.
3 The basic problem with it is that while McCourt's life of poverty in Ireland is interesting and there are a couple of dozen well written passages and anecdotes, the work is atrociously edited. All the more galling for the lack of good editing is that this was McCourt's first book- he needed the help. The book is about 450 pages long and the 1st 300 pages deal with his first 6 or so years of growing up. We get the same images of infant death, Irish blarney, drunken dad, suffering mom, stalwart Frankie, and colorful Eriniana. The problem is that early childhood is necessarily the least interesting part of a life because a) the percentage of real memories per year is very low and b) the remembered is rarely cogitated upon enough to produce any coherent thesis of its import or meaning to a life.At describing these things McCourt is excellent. The scene of him and his brother getting bananas from a vendor in Brooklyn and his mom thinking he stole them is excellent, BUT such only works its charms once. After about 50 pages we get the idea already: McCourt's early life was bleak- it's as if he wants us to really, really know he suffered. The opening page or so at first read seems to poke fun at the Irish habit of bemoaning their woes, but it quickly becomes apparent that McCourt intended no irony in its felicitous prose. He truly wants the reader to know the Irish suffering is on par with that of Jews, blacks, and American Indians. By going on for 300 pages with this the reader starts to turn off about a third of the way though, then skimming between the Godotvian feeling anecdotes of misery.Things only pick up when Frank reaches his teens- he gets various employment, has a falling out with his mom and her lover, rues his dad's departure, loses his virginity to a consumptive girl who dies, then heads off for America. There are many moving images and wonderfully non-stereotyped characters. The scenes with his tubercular lover are priceless, yet their whole affair is accorded a mere couple of pages vis-&agrave;-vis the dozens allotted the repetitious sufferings. A good editor would have told McCourt he had an intriguing 1st draft, but told him to cut the early years down to 100 pages, and double the teen tales to 300 pages. That 400 page edition of AA would have deserved all the acclaim the canonical edition has, while also being over 10% leaner.This is the main reason why the film version of the book is actually better than the written version. That said, it's far from a great film, but it more judiciously accords the interesting portions of McCourt's life, with about  the film on the early years, and the rest on the teen years. As a writer I've often said that the poor practices of editors, publishers, and critics have had a disproportionately deleterious effect on contemporary literature. A bad editor either does not realize a gem that falls in their lap, passes on it, or butchers it, or they get a diamond in the rough, like AA, but have not the sense nor insight to demand the necessary revisions. Toni Morrison has made a career out of having her ill-edited novels published. Yes, she's gotten acclaim, but once dead her trip to the canon will be fruitless because the poor editing of her work will become ok to speak of. But, McCourt was not Morrison- he was a first time author- his editor should have done a better job.
5 This was one of those best-sellers that truly lived up to its hype.  Frank McCourt's prose and his incredible story of growing up very poor in Ireland, is one for the ages.  Over 1,800 reviews of it here on Amazon tells you something.If you missed this book - and the hype has longed died down over it so there is a chance you may not hear about it these day - take the word of reviewers here and take notice of all the awards the book won: this is good stuff!Rarely I have read a book with so much sadness, humor, sweetness and tragedy all rolled into one.The storytelling here was so good that a movie was made (almost word-for-word with the book). a sequel to the book was written and documentaries have been made about the McCourt family. In addition, Frank's ultra-crazy brother Malachy also wrote about his adventures.I know it sounds like a cliche, but this is a story you will never forget.
3 While it was an eye-opener about real poverty, I felt the book was weakened by the lack of focus in the point of view.
5 I haven't read the book, but I've listened to it, read by the author. Both moving and deeply humorous, hearing the author's incredible voice lends a magic to the book that might be hard to achieve by reading it yourself. McCourt is a master storyteller.
5 I couldn't put the book down.  The fact that the story is told by a child really comes across well.
5 If that title had not already been taken it would have fit this book perfectly. I resisted and resisted and resisted this book, but sometimes the masses are absolutely correct. This was a brilliant read and totally absorbing. I read it in two days time. At moments, I was in tears, the scene where the surviving twin searches the house for his brother is burned into my brain forever and at other moments I found myself laughing. This is the single best memoir I have ever read. Pick it up, now.
3 I found the book to be a very moving story of an Irish family who faced gut-wrenching poverty with fierce determination.  McCourt is effective at characterizing the shame and suffering that poverty forces on his family, but it appears that many critics think that the squalor that is conveyed is exaggerated.  In reading the book,  I kept hoping that there would be some respite from the squalor, but it seems that it was endless and it became very tedious.  I am not suggesting that poverty is not excruciating, but I believe that the exaggeration leads to mental exhaustion that almost has the opposite effect.Despite these reservations, however, the book is well worth reading.
5 If you still haven't read Angela's Ashes, you need to get it in gear and do so. This is a future classic in the memoir genre. A must read.
1 Probably the most depressing book I've ever read.  Made me want to deny I have Irish ancestors. Wished I had never read it.
1 If I could give this book a minus-5 star rating, I would. I absolutely HATED it!! and I didn't even get past the 6th disk... with 6 more to go, no less!! After listening to hour after hour of pain, poverty, hunger, filth, and misery, to say "I'm enjoying the experience" would be a lie. In my opinion, some books just should not be written, like Stephen King's _Misery_, for example, or Nevada Barr's _Hard Truth, and I think this is one of those. Based on this book alone, I'll never read or listen to another Frank McCourt book as long as I live.
5 I LOVED this book. Couldn't put it down even when the story became so desperately sad. Will read it again and again just in case I missed some small thing!!
5 I love Frank McCourt's writing style. He does not use quotations, just tells it like it is.....I could hardly put this one down! Excellent reading! Some parts were hilarious, and at other times very depressing, but the book is unforgettable. It will definitely leave you with more compassion for those who suffer through poverty and lack of hope.
3 Hard to know people lived this way such a short time ago, and still do.  Sorry there are so many less fortunate.
5 This book is well known among school teachers. It shares a lesson in history. It puts a human face on a tough time for immigrant movements in this country and others.DON&#34;T skip it because you might accidentally learn something. It's a good read, good story and worth your time.
5 Angela's Ashes portrays the events of a young boy, Frank McCourt, from his early childhood through age nineteen.  It tells of the family's hardships and heartbreak, and although the novel could be incredibly depressing, the author's insight makes the book universal, and makes the particular relavent to all.  I enjoyed the details about Irish life during the depression, and the ways that people survived, and tried to keep their dignity even on the precipice of despair and death.  The prose is imaginative and the dialogue quite memorable.  I read this book in a day because it was so intriguing, and I bet that you'll enjoy it, too.
5 Mr. McCourt has given us a rare and touching glimpse into what must have been a very difficult childhood.  As devastating as poverty of this magnitude can be, he was able to raise us above the sadness with humor,  wit, and heart warming stories. I can honestly say that I did not want to  read this book.  I knew it would be a downer.  That it was, in some ways,  but it also lifted my spirits and made me think about the resilience of the  human spirit. I felt such a connection with this book because it helped me  remember the details of my life with new reverence and appreciation.  Thank  you, Mr. McCourt.
4 the story of a young boy named frank mccort who is born in america and moves with his family to ireland.  the time is depression era amercia and things are not much better when they move to ireland.  sometimes funny, sometimes stark and horrifyingly sad.  this book is a great read about the poor and destitute life of young frank mccourt.my only question is this: if franks's mother(angela) is so poor then why in the world would she keep reproducing?  they cannot afford to eat themselves and yet they crank out the babies.  even after some of their children die of various disease/starvation, they continue to reproduce.other than that, the book is ok, showing that even in the worst of circumstances there is fun to be had and laughing to be done.  this book will make you laugh and cry.
3 Similar to but unlike Frank McCort's others works.  It is a good read but occasionally lugubrious in its content. Still, as a reader I would recommend it.
5 Growing up in an Irish family, I always knew that no one could tell a story like an Irishman. So reading Frank McCourt's moving tale of his childhood in the slums of Limerick, Ireland, was like a flashback to my childhood, to those days of listening to Aunts &amp; Uncles and my Grandmother telling stories about their younger days; Specificlly the way they could tell the most horrible story, and still manage to get a belly laugh out of it, while also bringing a tear to your eye. I can't tell you how many times I laughed out loud reading this book, only to find myself crying over the very next paragraph. As Frank himself says on the first page, it's a miracle he (And his Brothers) managed to survive childhood.This book truly deserves all the accolades that have been heaped upon it. I finished it last night, and I'm already reading Malachy McCourt's book, A Monk Swimming, and I can't wait to start the sequel to Ashes, 'Tis. This is a remarkable book, one of the best I've ever read.
5 Well this book has gotten a lot of hype, But I must admit is is well worth the read, and for sure in the top 5 books I have ever read.. I think you must go into this book not expecting much, you will get alot out of it that  way... McCourt has the ability to make you feel as if you are actuelly the  child, and through out the hole book you are either laughing at the small  jokes, or crying at the drama in it...  A must read for those who love  emotional books.
5 How Frank McCourt survived to be a master storyteller, poet, and humanitarian is a miracle and a mystery; midway through his story he suggests the whisper of an answer.  After we have walked with him through  the cold and filthy streets of Limerick, suffered with him through the  senseless deaths of several siblings, felt the cruel indignities of  frostbite and fleabite and hunger and mean-ness of human spirit, he posits  an intriguing and hopeful suggestion.  In the hospital recovering from a  near-fatal brush with Typhoid, he shares a brief friendship with a fellow  patient who introduces him to great literature.  Lost in the delicious  escape of poetry, he comments, &quot;'Twas a lovely thing to discover that  they couldn't mess with the inside of your head.&quot;  At the end of this  memoir, stepping off the boat onto US soil, a companion exclaims what a  great country this is.  In the one-word ending chapter, McCourt replies to  his friend simply, &quot;'Tis.&quot;  Angela's Ashes leaves the reader with  an indelible experience of enslavement to classism, poverty, disease, and  hunger, but it leaves us with an even larger question:  Can we fully and  truly and responsibly inhabit a land of freedom, plenty, and opportunity?  The reader, left breathlessly waiting for the answer to be found in the  sequel to this astounding book might do well also to look within.
4 I loved McCourt's book, it's amazing how he can remember everything in such great detail. He certainly has a gift for writing and I look forward to reading the sequel, his life in America. I'd like to talk about the book  with anyone, email me if you want.
3 It grabbed me from the start, but now about half way through I wonder how much more starvation, drinking problems, poverty, and gloom I can stand.  Got to be a glimmer of sunshine somewhere down the line.  I will finish it,  but it's getting hard to get back into the muck.
1 ... I can handle one but not both.I am afraid that this is one of very  few books that I stopped reading about a third of the way in. I'm now of an  age when I no longer feel that I am obliged to read a book just because it  has been venerated or is somehow defined as a landmark, though I admit that  I will persevere longer in those circumstances. But when I decide night  after night that I am not enjoying it in the least, and even that I am  finding it a chore to read then I am old enough and ugly enough to consign  it to the charity box.I'm sorry, because I love Ireland, and Dublin in  particular ... my job takes me there several times a month and I am very  fond of the people. I really looked forward to a good read. This wasn't it.  Shame, really.
5 Awesome read, there's almost a musical quality to McCourt' s writing that enables one to hear the lilting Irish accents, hear the sounds and smell the smells of Limerick, and also feel the hunger and desperation this poor family lives with daily. Beautiful, lyrical story, so sad when I reached the last page- I wanted more. Can't rave about this book enough.
5 The story gets extremely graphic at times, but it is the real story of Frank's life.  It is amazing that despite all Frank McCourt went through as a child, he succeeded in life.
3 When I started reading this very sad, yet funny memoir; I thought &#34;how did this boy live through this and grow up to be such a beautiful writer?&#34;. Poverty, a long suffering mother, alcoholism, and a nasty, unfeeling extended family, doesn't make for raising a fully functional adult. Frank McCourt is a survivor like no other. The only thing I did not like about the book was how it spent too much time on his fascination with masturbation as a young teen and the strange way in which it ends.
5 The McCourt brothers and their use of our shared language deserve every bit of attention they get. Frank tells stories of crushing poverty with such a lyrical witty writing style you almost forget to be sad, remember I said almost. This is an Ireland not of leprecauns and shamrocks, but death and hunger and desperation. A truly wonderful read if you have the stomach for it...hang in there for the happy ending.
5 This book is really great.  It is a story of a young boy, Frank going up in poverty in Ireland in the 1930's.  It's a must read book for anyone who enjoys true stories.
5 I really enjoyed this book. Sad, funny and very touching. I love Frank McCourt's style of writing. I could read a lot of it with an accent.
5 Frank captures, as he has lived. His human spirit triumphantly surpasses insurmountable odds and lives for the dream.  God bless his soul and the souls of his family.
4 I enjoyed this book and the slice of poor Irish life that it affords the reader but it is quite repetitive. He basically tells the same stories over and over.
3 My daughters and I started listening to the book on tape.  It's a good story, and I especially enjoyed hearing the author himself telling the story.  But the cussing became so constant that I didn't let the girls listen to the second half.  An otherwise great story was ruined by the excessive use of words that detracted rather than added.  I don't need to hear GD on every page to get the idea that people actually talk that way.  A few examples would have been sufficient.
4 Angela's Ashes is the chronicle of author Frank McCourt's childhood, first in America, then in Ireland, or purports to be. The sadness, tragedy, ugliness, and despair are laid on so thickly as to become improbable in combination. Bad things do happen to good people, but in McCourt's world, the worst always happens. When the family moves, it is to the worst house on the lane, next to the only outhouse. When it rains, their house is the one that floods. When he develops conjunctivitis, it is permanent (he still has it years later). When other kids' alcoholic fathers go to England during the war to earn money, his is the only one who drinks his pay away and loses the job. Nothing is ever halfway for McCourt. If there is a tragedy to tell, it will be the most tragic conceivable.There are inconsistencies, such as time frames that make no sense, as well as improbabilities, like his grandmother making several walking round trips of over a mile, all in one night, months before her death. There is also the issue of whether McCourt could possibly recall such detail (as his lengthy story about the IRA refusing to helping his father out and why) during his very early years without any context. It would be as though you were four years old and heard your father talking about the New Deal, and you remembered everything about it even though you had no idea at the time what all the acronyms represented. Oddly, while McCourt goes into great detail about his early childhood, his timeline becomes increasingly compressed as he approaches adolescence. There is much less detail, and whole months are passed by just at a time when a person would be more likely to remember more -- and to be experiencing more. It almost feels like he grew tired of the tale (and fabricating it) and was in a rush to get to the end. Or perhaps, having gone through a sleazy conception, rats, fleas, sewage, open sores, tuberculosis, vomited blood, corporeal punishment,prolonged hunger, his mother's prostitution, etc., etc., etc. (no horror goes untouched), he simply ran out of material.So, from early on, I viewed Angela's Ashes as a work of fiction in which none of the characters is likeable. While many would say the father is the worst, as he is a hard-core alcoholic who cannot and will not support his family, I found him to be far more sympathetic a person than his mother as portrayed. When sober, the father often shows his sons small signs of affection and empathy, but Angela herself is nearly always cold, distant, and unsympathetic toward her children. She is always more focused on herself than on them. I'm not sure how many people could write about their own mothers as dispassionately as McCourt does. If she had one good quality, McCourt is careful not to present it.As a child, McCourt seems relatively balanced, likeable, and ethical, wanting to do the right thing, but adolescence seems to turn him into a different person. He lies, he steals, he takes advantage of people -- and the only guilt he seems to feel is that imposed by the Catholic Church. There is never a sense, even when he achieves adulthood, that he has any deep thoughts about who he is, what he is doing, and how he affects others. Even his agonizing over his belief that he is responsible for a consumptive girl's descent into Hell because he had sex with her is tainted by the selfishness of his focus.In the end, I must concur with an author acquaintance who said, &quot;Angela's Ashes? 'tis as phony as the photo on the cover.&quot;But it is certainly well written and compelling, if you happen to have a large grain of salt handy. Recommended under those conditions.
4 McCourt definitely has a way of telling a story.  I enjoy the very lyrical prose (at least in the beginning of the book before it became redundant)of the Irish story teller who told a painful story of childhood that wasn't much of a pain to read, unlike most other sad stories.  I won't reiterate all the strong points that many of the readers have already brought forward but I do want to provide a few different thoughts.  First, perhaps the light humors that were added to the story was a way to balance tragedy and comedy but I, unlike many readers, found some of the humors to be unfitting. Secondly, I'm not sure what the author's message was about the various sexual experiences throughout the book, especially in the final scene.  Were they meant to be humorous or saying something about the desire for freedom from the "miserable catholic childhood?"  Either way, I didn't laugh and didn't see a connection.  Thirdly, I read the book twice and still couldn't capture the elements that would make this book among the Pulitzer winner list.  I've enjoyed other memoirs just as much, if not better, and they were much less than well known.  Somewhere along the way, maybe because of the movie deal, the book became overrated. A good (not great) read nevertheless.
5 This was truly an amazing story. It should be sad and depressing but I did laughed, cried, and had a smile on my face through all of it. Frank McCourt narrated the audio version of this and that is what I read. As soon as I finished it, I started it over with my boyfriend. Loving every second of it.A book that I put off reading for years, and now has become my favorite book. The writing, and story are both so amazing. I can't wait to read the next book.
5 Frank McCourt did a wonderful job bring his readers back to his tragic childhood in Ireland. Poverty was something that his family struggled with and it did not help the situation as his father was a hard-core alcoholic who prefers to spend his dole money on drinks even though his family is barely surviving. McCourt also had to deal with the deaths of his sibblings due to improper care and lack of food.I like this book a lot because it makes us think of how fortunate we are, to have food, loved ones and at times, we don't appreciate what we have. This book also gives a good perspective of how difficult times were after the Great Depression and how World War II were able to provide jobs for a lot of people and helped to boost the economy.I think this book is quite funny too besides the problems faced by the McCourts. The author did a great job in observing his surroundings and also find humors in difficult times.
4 Very well written book about a young boy growing up in poverty in Ireland. I'm amazed anyone made it out alive. I'd definitely recommend it. I'm sure there's more to be said about it, but definitely a good read.
5 I'm Irish and I loved it!! - If you don't buy, read and enjoy this book then you must have been "dropped on your head as a child."  This reference is just one of Mr McCourt's MANY unique and original one-liners throughout the book.Hard to believe he lived long enough to tell his story AND that he can tell his story in such a way that will make you laugh and cry at the same time.  I think it is fair to say he hasn't lived a perfect life - but he sure has lived an interesting one!!I listened to the book on CD, which is aprox. 14 hours total in length and it was worth every minute!!  The time flew by, it was as if I was sitting and listening to my grandfather tell a story.Despite the bleak backdrop and the dreary storyline - ironically I REALLY enjoyed this book!!!  Mr. McCourt did a beautiful job with the narration as well.As a side note:  Everyone should have been so lucky to have had just one teacher like Frank McCourt in school.  What a storyteller!!I think you will enjoy it too! I suggest you buy the audio version to get the full effect.
5 Angela's Ashes blew me away...so lyrical, so funny, so brutally honest!I've loved debating with people who've told me, "enough with the whining already McCourt." Get a grip...if this is whining, give me more Mr. McCourt!It was inspiring, descriptive, captivating. A delight from start to finish.Daring. McCourt created his original style of writing. We need more of you to lead the way!
5 I had not read a book in a long time when I picked this up in a store and  read the first page. I  felt my heart leap. The book communicated it's  earnest feel for life so well. I enjoyed the humour and child's eye view of  the world. The upbeat tenor of the book despite horrendous setbacks in  young McCourts life has to be experienced to be understood. This book is an  affirmation of life. It could so easily be hideous with guilt and twisted  bitterness. Historically these are times not to be forgotten especially  when the powers of the time stood idly by. This is what books are written  for.
2 Its depressing and sad in a way that its plotless and themeless. There is no climax, no break with a bit of happiness, nothing. Its like reading the same pages over and over and over. I understand the point is to show the poverty of Irish immigrants, which I appreciate having great grandparents from Ireland, but this is over the top. Its a bore to read.It repeats itself time and time again. It took me 2 months to get to the half way point before I gave up. I NEVER quit on a book but this one is such a long, depressing, mundane, boring read, I had to quit. Maybe the author should have wrapped it up quicker instead of going on and on with many trivial details. Sometimes less is more...
3 I enjoyed reading the book about Frank and family but I feel the title (in my opinion) was a misguide to the book.  It was really about Frank and his life with his family. Did I not understand what the title represented.
3 I read this book after I had read the Life of Pi. The story was okay but very depressing for me. I had to make myself read it and when I was through I was very glad to get on with another book.
5 After reading this book,  it is doubtful that anyone could  ever find anything to  complain about again.In one passage, starving, seeking food, little  "Frankie" licks a discarded empty fish and chips paper wrapper trying to get some sustenance from its residue of grease.  He retrieved it from the floor of a bar.  It's contents were consumed by a sleeping drunken man.At other times,  "Frankie"  is mostly barefoot,  or clunking along streets in makeshift clothes and worn shoes with repaired  soles cut from a discarded bicycle rubber tire.  Doors are slammed in his face by a local parish priest, a school master, contemptous neighbors, cruel relatives, among others.  His mother, Angela through her tears and dismal surroundings consoles him,  offering him the shattered shreds of her strength.  "Remember this"-  she tells him-  "never again allow anyone to close another door in your face."These and other scorching  memories of his young tender years in Ireland are shared by author Frank McCourt.  Yet even in abject  poverty and suffering, his family never loses their  buoyant hopes for a better life somewhere.  There are Dad's stories, Though her "singing voice" is gone, there are  Mam's songs.  They bear children. Some die from hunger and sickness; some like Frank and Malachy endure.  They are  much like the tiny  glowing embers among ashes of an almost quenched fire.The author takes us from America to Ireland and back again to America.  His journey  is a  harrowing, melancholy saga laced with bittersweet memories and humor.  The book never boggs down.  Page after page holds our interest as we are mesmerized by the creativity, and resilient spirit  of this child.  We wonder how in the world  did he manage to survive and become this literate being who holds us spellbound with his words.
5 I absolutly love McCourts memoir. Not only does he preserve the Irish culture by maintaining the Irish brogue but also refers to his feelings as they occured during the time of which he writes. McCourt has a peculiar yet  refreshing way of making comparisons with the ordinary to the not so  ordinary (i.e: eating an egg - &quot;if heaven had a taste it would be an  egg.&quot;)  McCourt's candor about subjects often frowned upon by society  (i.e: some of his confessions to the priest) and his innocence (thinking  the worse sin is hearing a &quot;dirty&quot; story from a friend)leads the  reader to believe his narrative is an authentic account of his child hood.  McCourt allows the reader to experience his story by keeping nick-names and  other small things which ultimatly produce a hilariouse and touching story.  McCourt's book should not be viewed as didactic (telling us to be thankful)  or &quot;a pity-party&quot; for himseld - he simply seems to be saying,  &quot;sometimes bad things happen and life is rough but years later you go  back and laugh at it all!&quot; (15 yrs. female)
5 This was one of the most beautiful audio book experiences ever! In this book there is a certain tone in the reading that helps to communicate this family's circumstance from the naive child's point of view.  McCourt sings for you the songs of his drunken father and it is worth a rewind/replay at times. Highly recommended!
1 After the first fifty pages I just put it down and went to find something else to do.  Boring, tedious, and ridiculous.  Poor writing with nothing of interest to it.As one other reviewer said of the story line after fifty pages:  "Oh, Jayzuz, Daddy's drunk yet again."Honestly, save your money and buy something by Thomas Merton.
5 I love this story. It is hard to believe it is all true. Such an amazing look at the authors childhood.
5 McCourt's child protagonist and his over-riding optimism, his natural-born inclination to make the best of things, makes an otherwise grim tale not only bearable but uplifting and heroic. Despite the daily, brutal grind of poverty, this child still manages to experience, wallow in, simple joys. Due to McCourt's honest voice, I felt every one of this kid's untidy, conflicted emotions. I LOVED this kid.But after reading some of the criticism here, I think some people forget that this is first and foremost a MEMOIR. Memoirs are subjective by nature. So if McCourt's personal experience shows prejudice toward the Catholic Church, or if he seems to present a "stereotype" of the drunken, morose, Irish----that's HIS viewpoint----naturally. If you want a more balanced view don't read memoirs! Read academia! (It's like reading an autobiography of a politician and complaining that it's too political).I would absolutely recommend this book to anyone who loves to read. The naysayers included. It's not a pretty story, but it IS heroic.
4 &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; is the melancholy story of the McCourt family as told through the eyes of Frank McCourt.  McCourt's family went to America and then back to Ireland. The story continues until Frank is  nineteen and leaving for America. The strength of the book lies in the  vivid characterizations, the honesty of the narrative and the beautifully  descriptive writing.  McCourt puts you in the town of Limerick with the  feckless McCourt family and their troubles. The book has its imperfections.  McCourt indulges in a great deal of repetition.  We hear over and over  again about a relative who was dropped on his head as a child.  Over and  over, McCourt's father goes to the pubs to drink up his wages.  There is an  inevitability to the suffering that is incredibly depressing.  The McCourt  family is reduced to begging, to painting their legs black in order to hide  the holes in their stockings and to living in a house with a sewer inside  used by the entire neighborhood.  &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; is a story of  survival against great odds, and it breaks your heart to see people  suffering like this.  McCourt certainly captures the feeling of what it was  like to grow up in Ireland in abject poverty, suffering tremendous hunger  and humiliation on a daily basis.
4 Frank McCourt,Your book is wonderful, I can even hear the Irish accents.  Your use of words is more than spell-binding, but you've certainly made my reading laboured. You omitted quotation marks, and that  impedes the cadence of your lovely book.Maybe the hard-bound copy has  the quotation marks, and the paperback doesn't.  Could that be?  Enlighten  me, Mr. McCourt.  This is a style of writing that I've not seen  before.Will I read more of your books?  Och aye!  I'll even volunteer to  insert the quotation marks and  then you can add me to your &quot;small  hymn to an exaltation of women&quot;.  (notice how nicely I did  that?)Respectfully, E. Christina Dabis
1 I don't know why everyone likes this book so much, I find it very boring, dull, never goes anywhere. It's about as much fun as molasses. In fact I would rather rip out my colon and skip rope with it then read another word. :-)
5 I always recommend this book to my friends by saying &quot;It's the most hilarious book about starving to death&quot;. Which is not too far off.What makes this story so great is not what happens in it - it is the &quot;tone&quot; and how it is told. Everything being seen through the eyes of a little boy makes even the worst things seem humorous.His sense of character is great. The people almost jump off the page.I laughed and was very moved by this book. I highly recommend it.PS: The movie has some good performances but never meets the magic of this book. The &quot;tone&quot; is missing.
4 I finished this book in less than 3 days.  I enjoyed reading it, kept me coming for more.  I gave it a 4 instead of a 5 because it left a lot of loose ends, I was left with quite a few, "but what happened to.....".  Felt like a movie that has a part 2.
1 ... It is a chronicle of a tragic childhood with a good dose of the macabre - the scene with the dead baby made me shiver. Though, having known a number of people from Ireland, I am aware that the Celts do tend to have a rather morbid side to their religious beliefs, most are not in the situation where ... their parents were anything like this pair. Don't read this one for humour - it is appealing only for those who are relieved to find that they could have done worse than they did with their own dysfunctional families.
4 Frank McCourt is a wonderfull story teller.I can almost hear that Irish accent as i read this book!  Very touching,funny,sad,many emotions felt while reading this book.Yes,Frank had a depressing childhood but he shares  it with us in a very colourful way.There's no doubt that the poverty he  lived in was appaling but this book is not just a story where another Irish  child grows up in a slum and goes nowhere.He shares his dreams,his  thoughts,his longing to be someone and go somewhere.  He tells this story  in such a delightful way that you can't help reading on.For those of you  who cannot hear an Irish speaking voice in your head I recommend you listen  to this on the cassette that is available.This book is very moving and very  well written.If you liked this book then please read the follow on called  'Tis.
5 There is no substitute for hearing Frank McCourt speak to you, in his own voice, his own words, his own story.  Even if you have read the book, you will find fresh enjoyment and an incomparable entertainment experience through listening to Angela's Ashes on audio.  McCourt breathes warmth, humor and personality into his reading in such a way that is is more like having a cup a tea -- or at times, a pint of Guiness -- with the author in person as he recalls both the humor and tragedy in his life with neither guile nor bitterness.  Anything more I can add to this review will be superfluous after this caveat.  Do not deny yourself this (albiet onesided) conversation with a truly admirable man.
5 This is one of the best books I have ever read!Frank McCourt writes about his youth growing up in NYC and Ireland.  He lives in near desperate conditions because of a father who could not keep a job and could not resist &quot;the drink.&quot;  Yet young McCourt does not quite despair because of the squalor in which he is living.  He finds humor in his daily life, which he describes in much incredibly fascinating and delightful detail.  This book follows him through the addition of brothers and a sister to his family, followed by the sad early death of too many of them, the sacrifices of dignity his mother makes to maintain a home and food and clothing, his adventures with local kids, mishaps at school, the threat of eternal damnation he feels for all of the naughty things he does, a number of jobs to help aid his family upon the departure of an alcohol-enslaved father, and finally his own departure to embark upon a life of his own.Frank McCourt's young outlook on life is so unique and enjoyable, you will be delighted by his ever hopeful perspective.  The writing is hilarious.  You will chuckle at even the little things, including how he refers, in his Irish way, to things as &quot;some class of...&quot; this or that, and his dirty boy stuff as &quot;interferring with himself&quot; or &quot;the excitement.&quot; Frank McCourt shares with his readers an honest, detailed, and humorous memoir of his boyhood.I think everyone should read this book.  I highly recommend it.
3 I liked this book fairly well.  I think that it was depressing, but if his life was derpressing, then he should portray it honestly.  I saw that some reviews said there was no misery in Limerick, because of the strong sense of community there.  I say that if he was miserable then there was misery.  Also, I notice on many of the reviews that are negative, even if its an  honest representation of the book, most people find it unhelpful.  It's the  same for other books.  Why is this?
5 I figured I would pick this book up since I will be living in Ireland for one year. Of course, this book is a very different Ireland from today, but I figured it would answer question's about this generation, and that time.It's told from the perspective of Frank McCourt. The book stretches from the time he's three, to the time he's 16. They move back to Ireland when he's 4 years of age and into even worse poverty than they were in when they lived in New York.The book is not as bleak and awful as I thought it would be. Maybe it's pretty bad and i'm a moron, but I imagined a pretty dark book.Even through the darkness of the book, McCourts humor rings through it in how he perceived things as a child. The dialogue is wonderful. If not made up, it's very captivating.The people that come into little Frank's life are just one jerk or old witchy broad after another, or one Pious schoolmaster or Priest after another. The place he lives is very religious and traditional to the point where McCourt is led to beleive he's doomed to hell for his petty little sins.HIs alcoholic father is portrayed in such a way that I felt awfully sorry for him and actually sort of liked him! THis is despite the fact that he sells the remains of their dead son so he can have money for beer, and despite the fact that he works day in and day out only to spend everything on alchohol till they have absolutely no food, and even despite the fact that he goes to England to find a good paying job, but never sends them back any money! Despite all of this, I REALLY wanted to see his father pull through because he's such a warm and loving character even if he's off his rocker and a total loser.There are so many bad echoes of Frank's past in this book, but i was so intrueged by his style of telling it, as though you know something better is coming.The title, I imagine, probably refers to all the children their family loses throughout the corse of the book; another devestating aspect of the family life.I'm reading "T'is" right now, which is the sequel to this book, and I love it even better than this book! I can't wait to finish it and I can't wait till "The Teacher Man" comes out in November.
4 This is one of those books you never quite forget.  Most of the story is told by Frank from his viewpoint as a child in Ireland. Angela, his mother, does all she can to hold the family together.  A number of her children have died, and  she watches helplessly as the other children deteriorate because of poverty.  The senior McCourt is a happy-go-lucky fella who rarely  works, and who  needs only an alcholic drink to make life tolerable. The family is uprooted several times, and is ridiculed by those with more resources. They have withstood cold, hunger, lack of medical attention and  inadequate housing ----  and  through it all, they keep their sense of humour.A heartwarming story of  human resolve to survive each day by putting  one foot in front of the other. With all his shortcomings, the father left this family  a legacy greater than gold...that is the ability to laugh at themselves.It's a "full box of kleenex" type of book, as you're either laughing or crying.E. Perry
5 This book tells the story of the childhood of Frank McCourt.  McCourt was just an ordinary boy, born in New York City of Irish immigrant parents.  After a family tragedy, his parents returned to Ireland with the children.  And that's how this little kid from New York City ended up growing up in a lane in an Irish slum, learning essential survival skills like how to keep his belly full and his feet dry.  It seemed that everything that could go wrong did- -Frank's father was a drunk who couldn't bring home a paycheck for more than a few weeks running, the house where they lived was flooded each spring from the lane's common privy, and educational opportunities were quite limited for boys without funds.  In such circumstances, the only way to survive is not to fret about tomorrow or what the neighbors might think, but to go ever forward with determined independence.As I listened to this story as read by the author, I kept hearing my own grandfather's voice.  Yes, I'd heard all the stories about childhood deprivation and inner strength, about drunken fathers and run-down houses, but I'd never really listened when my grandfather told them.  "He's exaggerating," I thought, "Nobody ever lived like that."  But after hearing the details of Frank's childhood, I realize that my grandfather wasn't complaining about his childhood or looking for sympathy.  He was just trying to paint a picture of the experiences that he lived through, which were so very different from my own.  There was something about my grandfather's style of speaking that made him sound different from everyone else I knew.  He was born in the US so he didn't have an Irish accent at all, but there was something peculiar about the rhythm of his speech and the style of relating to others that I never noticed in other people's voices.  As McCourt narrates conversations between his parents and aunts and uncles, I can hear my grandfather jumping into the fray, a bit drunk, but not so drunk that he couldn't come out with a witty remark that still leaves people laughing when they remember it forty years later.  I understand now- -my grandfather was simply Irish.  This book is a wonderful telling of childhood with all its ups and downs, honesty and deceit, grief and joy.  McCourt's writing draws the reader into Frank's world, where they can hear his father singing in the pub and smell the bread and onions frying on the stove.
3 Frank McCourt's celebrated book tracks the story of young Frank from the dregs of New York to Limerick, Ireland, and back, and paints a depressing landscape of poverty and human weakness, with glimmers of hope among the ruins.As this book has been touted highly, I expected much more than I got: a semi-autobiographical version of Dickensian squalor with a streak of Joyce, it was a tale that I feel has been told before. I was expecting, I suppose, some exquisite or revolutionary prose, or some original insight into human nature. At the very least, I thought perhaps there would be a unique plot twist to account for this book's popularity, but it's likely that what drove sales was in part the promise of "poverty porn." There are lovely moments, though, honest moments that shine through: for example, Frank's feelings about the girls he interacted with toward the end felt genuine to me, and in that way packed an emotional punch. There are also moments where the narration is hysterically funny. It's not a bad book by any means: it just does not live up to its hype.
4 I found this book to be well-written and very readable. The memoir is seen through the eyes of  a growing boy, and although his home was very squalid and his life very hard, it is written in a light tone. Frank's strength, and his mother's coping skills are remarkable. It is also a scathing indictment of the indifference of many of the Limrick clergy, but a real tribute to the few dedicated teachers and priests he encountered.However, towards the end, I got bored with reading about his teen-age sexual exploits. That part seemed like bragging or using the act of writing this memoir as a confession.
3 So much has been said and written about &quot;Angela's Ashes,&quot; and much more is to come after the movie is released.  Easy and smooth reading, no intellectual effort is required, although some readers are annoyed by  the excess emphasis on poverty (rats, lice, diseases, hunger, dirt, etc.)  The story reflects the cruel reality of poverty, be it in Ireland or in any  other part of the world.  It is all viewed from the perspective of a small  child and his struggle for survival, his awareness of the distortions  between a fanatic Christian environment in which the teachings of love,  sharing, respect, are far from his daily reality.  The story appeals to our  feelings of sorrow for the existence of so much misery in this world, which  explains why the book has been so successful.  A more demanding and  critical reader might find the book lacking in terms of structure, style,  and historical depth; all of these compensated by abundant human feeling.
5 The story is heartbreaking but very beautifully written. It is probably the best book I have ever read. Everyone should read it!
4 It was good, but it was a hard book for me to read and enjoy.There was so much poverty,it was hard for me to really enjoy reading it.  But I guess we have it in every country, to my sorrow.
5 What amazes me is that amidst all the pain, suffering and abject poverty, the author and his family never gave in to despair but were always hopeful! And the other thing that touched me is the love that was always there whatever happened ... between his parents, among the brothers and most especially Frank's for his father! I'll never forget this book!
5 Being Irish & American and growing up with stories of the &#34;old country&#34; and how blessed we are to be Irish, it was eye opening to learn the true experience of the Irish.  It was also very humbling for me to think of the things we take for granted like electricity, plumbing, beds, clean clothes and food. He tells it all with humor, so you don't find yourself crawling to bed from depression after each chapter.  I loved this book and shall read all three.  I'm looking forward to starting &#34;Tis&#34;.
5 This memoir is incredibly strong and you will find it extremely difficult to put down. HIGHLY recommended. :)
5 ANGELA'S ASHES covers author Frank McCourt's life as a child.  He has vivid memories that start as early as the age of four or five.McCourt is born in Brooklyn, New York.  His father is an alcoholic and can't hold a job or support his family. They return to live in Ireland where his father eventually abandons the family.  Some of McCourt's siblings die.  He faces hunger, illness, death and homelessness.  The family is so poor that they live without the basic necessities that many people take for granted. Yet, they are always kind to others (humans and animals) less fortunate.  When McCourt is 19, he returns to New York City.McCourt describes a lot of touching scenes, like the time his little brother, Michael, brings home a blind greyhound.  Michael sacrifices his supper (bread) to the dog and lets it sleep in the bed that all the children share.  Later they find the dog dead.  His brother is so upset that their mother allows them to stay home from school so that they can have a funeral.Chapter Four is my favorite chapter, where the author describes his experiences in an Irish school - the strict teachers, learning the catechism, his first communion, his first confession, his confirmation, giving his first collection, and watching movies starring James Cagney.McCourt tells his remarkable story, many times with humor.ANGELA'S ASHES is a reminder of the many children in this world who have to grow up in poverty.  Some of those children survive and others don't.  I'm glad that McCourt survived and has shared his touching story with us.Fafa Demasio
5 Frank McCourt recounts the deeply moving story of his childhood in Catholic Ireland... an Ireland where bigotted religious zealots make small children feel guilty just for surviving... an Ireland where the Irish detest the English and the Ulstermen, yet are not too proud to take their money off them... an Ireland where the injustice of life is thrust in your face by the tale of a small boy struggling to survive a broken marriage and an alcoholic father.You couldn't fail to read this true story without admiring the spirit of the boy who crawled his way out of the gutter to a better life. His typically Irish sense of humor (and of the absurd) shines through the squalid settings and the dismal truth of the story. You will be touched by his acceptance of burdens that most of us could never even imagine... living in absolute poverty... relying on charity for a pair of boots three sizes too big... collecting scaps of coal that have been ignored by others... always in debt... always cold... always in bad health.We have a lot to be grateful for.
4 Frank McCourt chronicles the story of his life in the streets of Ireland, his family living a life of poverty and hard luck. Somehow, he is able to make what should be a bleak story uplifting with his wit, humor and straight-forward approach to telling a story. Sometimes he gives you TOO much of the story, things you would rather not have heard--but I guess this is because it is a memoir. There is a certain amount of haphazardness to his writings...there are many times where you have no clue where this is going. But, at other times, there is an effort to be sentimental about the few things he has in life, or the hope of better days ahead.An interesting style McCourt uses to write the book, where he virtually uses no punctuation during the many dialogue scenes. He also has many, many run-on, wordy, and obtuse sentences that would probably have one of his master's in school up in arms. It took me awhile to get used to this "rambling" kind of style, and, as an English major, it almost had ME up in arms, but actually, after reading the book, the pace of book quickens because of this style. There was enough of a compelling and engaging story to care too much about punctuation, or lack thereof.As far as content itself, McCourt's story was highly entertaining and somewhat touching. While the young Frank is at school, he meets one strict school master after another, and he deals with the peer pressure from some of his classmates. The young Frank tries to keep all of the disappointments and failures and embarrassments behind him by reminding himself that one day things will change for him in America. There are times when Frank goes to the library to escape the world, knowing that he can escape into a story: "It's lovely to know that the world can't interfere with the inside of your head." Frank also experiences some time in the hospital with fever and eye problems, and in his first visit he meets Patricia, a girl who teaches him poetry. When he gets separated from her for talking to her, it is one of Frank's saddest moments: "Nurses and nuns never think you know what they're talking about...You can't ask questions. You can't show you understand what the nurse said about Patricia Madigan, that she's going to die, and you can't show you want to cry over this girl who taught you a lovely poem which the nun says is bad." Frank also deals with the trials of being in a family with an alcoholic father who rarely comes up, spends up the family's earnings, and some other dysfunctional relatives. He keeps hope that one day things will change for the better.While the story is highly engaging, one thing that irked me was the abruptness of the ending. Without giving too much away, the memoir just seemingly ends without any deep moment or thought. The incident with Frank and the woman--- is that suppose to be some momentous or life-changing event? It seemed kind of stupid to end the book right there. It also made the book seem a little uneven; after all, here is Frank preaching about how he wants to help his family in the future, and then what does he go and do in the book's conclusion?Criticism aside, this is an enjoyable read, which I honestly didn't think would be possible based on what I had heard about the story. McCourt is able to intertwine humor and heart-break in a way I've never seen done before.
4 The story of McCourt's young life is certainly enough to  make you thankful for your own early beginnings.  It was sad, funny and ultimately victorious of a sort.  I plan to read &#34;Tis&#34; .
5 What can I say that hasn't been said countless times about Angela's Ashes.  I see now why it has all the fans that it does.  I wish McCourt were a Chicano so I could claim him.  Or maybe say I too am Irish.  That's what I would say, that he made me feel Irish.  If not for the "brogue", his story is not that different than what many of us go through growing up poor, and that includes many of us who are born and raised here.
5 Eighty pages into 'Angela's Ashes,' it was brought to my attention that the book had stirred up quite the ire of the people who live in Limerick, Ireland. All memoirs have an element of intentional or unintentional fiction. Our memories are notoriously unreliable in remembering how actual events unfolded especially the further you go back into your own history. However, based upon the reactions of Limerick citizens, they are adamant that most of the late Mr. McCourt's work is pure BS. The author was just as adamant that it was all true. The hell if I know who to believe.What I can say is the thing sure sounds authentic when compared to my wife's and my background growing up Catholic during the 1960s and 70s in Maine. I, however, have been an agnostic for about thirty years now. College and critical thinking have a way of doing that to many Catholics. Ireland is well known for being deeply religious especially during the 1930s and 40s when the memoir takes place. A lot of the cockamamie Catholic superstitions and peer pressures are on full display in the book: unbaptized babies don't go heaven but some odd place called Limbo; you can't eat meat on Fridays or you go to hell; you can't masturbate or you also go to hell; all Protestants have a one-way ticket to Satan Central, blah blah, blah... the list of religious infractions is nearly endless. Add to that regional prejudices, abject poverty, oodles of uneducated adults, a high infant-mortality rate, an educational system that meted out corporal punishment to kids for the silliest of excuses, and lastly, a major-league-alcoholic father and, mercy me, you won't be mistaking 1930s-40s Limerick, Ireland for Shangri-la.There are also many funny adventures accompanied by the mandatory Catholic guilt trip. I enjoyed Mr. McCourt's memoir despite the controversy surrounding it. Even if many of these escapades were simply pulled out of the author's backside, the very well-written work certainly conveys the times and nature of poverty and religious mindset during the early part of the 20th Century. 'Angela's Ashes' deserved the Pulitzer Prize.
5 Outstanding work. Sad, but somehow uplifting and funny.  If there is one book to read about a poor Irish family this is it.
5 This is great, one of the best books written in recent years. The story is great and it's very well written.
5 The best book I've read this year. If Neil Simon were to have written a novel it may have well looked like this book. A unique voice and style applying humor in all of the right ways for a reader to absorb the sad tragedy of growing up poor, Irish, and Catholic during the depression years, in America, and Ireland. Frank McCourt is able to overcome the pathos of his poignant, sad, and often disturbing memoir of growing up as the oldest son of a poor Irish Catholic family, through use of voice. In Angela&#8217;s Ashes, Frank McCourt presents his memoir though the limited first person view of a young boy. He creates comic relief in using the voice of a small child, as he grows up, first in New York, and then in Limerick, Ireland, during the time of the depression, and its aftermath. McCourt presents a tragic account of his family that would generally overwhelm any reader, unless presented through the eyes of a child, who often does not realize the hardship he has undergone, and whose innocent, limited view allows him (and the reader) to keep going. McCourt pushes the reader through the grief of near starvation, the upbringing by an alcoholic father, misguided mother, loss of younger siblings, and the stigma of growing up, poor, Irish, and Catholic, at a time when all three were considered an affliction, like some disease, rather than circumstance. He manages to hold the reader&#8217;s interest, without overwhelming her with pathos, by his character&#8217;s youthful voice, through artful dialogue, carefully crafted to allow the reader to see the lighter side of his tragic life.  His choice of colloquial terms of endearment unique to the Irish of this era, calling his mother &#8220;Mam&#8221; instead of mom and using &#8220;Och&#8221; at the start of dialogue summary of the characters who likely had an Irish accent. In the very first paragraph, the author lets the voice of the narrator, pick up the easy ebb and flow of the Irish manner of speaking, and use of the vernacular of an American Irish immigrant, to recall his humble beginnings.  &#8220;My father and mother should have stayed in New York where they met and married and where I was born. Instead, they returned to Ireland, when I was four, my brother, Malachy, three, the twins, Oliver and Eugene, barely one, and my sister, Margaret, dead and gone.&#8221; (McCourt, 11).  The reader can almost picture an Irishman speaking as the story begins. McCort introduces comedy into his narrative voice, an older, more mature, man looking back on his life, when he recalls his father:Malachy McCourt, was born on a farm in Toome, County, Antrim.Like his father before, he grew up wild, in trouble with the English, or theIrish, or both. He fought with the Old IRA and for some desperate act hewound up a fugitive with a price on his head. [] When I was a child I wouldlook at my father, the thinning hair, the collapsing teeth, and wonder whyanyone would give money for a head like that. (McCourt, 12)This establishes the comic tone of the story through the voice of the character, recalling through his inner thoughts as a child, later through narrative summary, what he was told by his grandmother when he was thirteen; &#8220;as a wee lad, your poor father was dropped on his head. It was an accident, he was never the same after, and you must remember that people dropped on their heads can be a bit peculiar.&#8221; (McCourt, 12). This revelation becomes more humorous when the reader reconciles it with the story of how the grandmother&#8217;s brother, Patrick &#8220;Ab&#8221; Sheean, became retarded, after his alcoholic father dropped him on his head, when he was a baby. (McCourt, 13).Living with an alcoholic father, even one that is not necessarily abusive, can be a rather difficult subject matter for any reader to plow through, particularly where his alcoholism leave the family so impoverished that his family is near starvation, while he spends what little money on ale however, McCourt&#8217;s use of a limited first person view through a child&#8217;s eyes, the reader is given an account that is both tolerable, and sometimes funny. Here the voice of the child character portrays the tragic account of life in an impoverished alcoholic family with both catharsis, and humor. He uses word choices indicative of an Irish child, and through creative use of point of view, and method of speaking like a child, he says:When Dad gets a job Mam is cheerful and she sings,Anyone can see why I wanted your kiss,It had to be and the reason is thisCould it be true, that someone like youCould love me, love me?When Dad brings home the first weeks wages, Mam is delighted, she can pay the lovelyItalian man in the grocery shop and she can hold her head up again because there&#8217;s nothingworse in the world than to owe and be beholding to anyone. She cleans &#8230; she buys &#8230; and &#8230;on Friday night we know the weekend will be wonderful. &#8230;  Mam will boil the water on the stoveand wash us in the great tin tub and Dad will dry us. Malachy will turn around and show hisbehind. Dad will pretend to be shocked and we&#8217;ll all laugh &#8230;(but) when Dad&#8217;s jobgoes into the third week he does not bring home the wages&#8230; we know Mam won&#8217;tsing anymore one can see why I wanted your kiss. She sits at the kitchen tabletalking to herself&#8230; and Dad rolls up the stairs singing Roddy McCorley.[By the fourth week] Dad loses his job&#8230;(McCourt, 23-28).When his new baby sister, Margaret, dies, and his mother shuts down and stares at the wall, the use of a child&#8217;s voice enables the reader to somehow cope with the description of neglect of the other small children living in a roach infested apartment, with no food, and having to fend for themselves while their alcoholic father is still out at the pub. Later, when Oliver, one of the twins dies of pneumonia, followed by his brother, Eugene, McCourt&#8217;s use of his child&#8217;s voice, delivering death of his brothers, and baby sister Margaret into that child&#8217;s view that is both tolerable, and hopeful, despite the tears it brings to the reader&#8217;s eyes.Malachy and I are back in the bed where Eugene died. I hope he&#8217;snot cold in that white coffin in the graveyard though I know he&#8217;s not thereanymore because angels come to the graveyard and open the coffin and he&#8217;sfar from the Shannon (River) dampness that kills, up in the sky in heaven withOliver and Margret where they have plenty of fish and chips and toffee and noaunts to bother you, where all the fathers bring home the money from the LabourExchange and you don&#8217;t have to be running around to pubs to find them. (McCourt, 90).By using comic relief, McCourt is able to keep the reader from being too overwhelmed with pathos for the despair that so many tragic events, death, starvation, alcoholism, poverty and the disdain of insensitive people. He delivers the relief in the familiar family situations that bring smiles, along with the tears. Like when the mischievous brothers climb downstairs when their parents are sleeping and try on the false teeth that sit on the shelf by the sink, and Malachy is unable to remove his father&#8217;s big teeth from his mouth and has to go to the hospital. Although a near tragic event, McCourt is able to find the humor in the situation, and relay it to the reader in a believable child&#8217;s voice, telling the story.McCort&#8217;s portrayal of the family living upstairs in a house where they are unable to live downstairs because of the overwhelming odor from the sewage of many other families which is dumped near their front door, although not funny, is made humorous where the inspectors for the Saint Vincent De Paul Society are told by Malachy, still a child, that his family lives in &#8220;Italy&#8221; a term they have dubbed the upstairs part of the house where they live. (McCourt, 104).Additionally, when the grandmother stops talking to, and supporting the family, the tragic effect of this fact is reduced when the reason is provided in an anecdote where the main character reveals it was because he puked up God in her backyard after he came home from his first communion, (McCourt, 129), and where he had &#8220;God stuck to the roof of (his) mouth.&#8221; (McCourt, 128). The reader is compelled to laugh at the thoughts of a child, over a potentially touchy situation that interferes with the grandmother&#8217;s faith, and causes a serious rift in the family.Even when the main character&#8217;s mother lies dying, and he and his brothers are brought to their aunt&#8217;s house, McCourt creates a moment of levity to relive the reader of her heavy heart when he hears his fat aunt in the other room tinkling, and he is afraid to tell his brothers because he thinks they will all break out laughing: &#8220;at the picture in our heads of Aunt Aggie&#8217;s big white bum perched on a flowery little chamber pot.&#8221; (McCourt, 242). Later, when he delivers a message to an Englishman, is dragged into the house, forced to drink sherry and ends up puking on the rose bush belonging to the man&#8217;s wife, and is later dismissed from his job, where he is saving to go to America, the reader is spared the severe disappointment by the humor in the story, and a voice that keeps comic relief in everything it describes. (McCourt, 328-329). The book ends on a note of hilarity where the main character, on his way to America, is about to have sex, and a priest comes to his door. &#8220;The bad women bring out sandwiches and pour more beer and when we finish eating they put on Frank Sinatra records and ask if anyone would like to dance. No one says yes because you&#8217;d never get up and dance with bad women in the presence of a priest &#8230;&#8221; Despite all of his suffering, McCourt is as entertaining as his is hilarious. He has an enviable voice, Angela&#8217;s Ashes is a tribute to any mother&#8217;s memory.#__________________McCourt, Frank. Angela&#8217;s Ashes. Scribner. New York. 1996.
5 This book is masterfully written. I grew up Catholic and kind of poor and I laughed and cried over the family members and situations this author writes so compassionately about. A must read.
5 I have been waiting to read this book for quite some time as it sat in the center of a slowly diminishing pile of books.  Finally approaching this, a work by the man whose library I have read all but the one book he is so known for, I was satisfied and satiated as the mists of Ireland wafted off of the page and chilled my bones as similarly as the fog did to my ancestors only two generations ago.McCourt does some amazing things in this autobiography, mixing his broguish memoir with the muddy taste of poverty, death, and alcoholism.  We follow McCourt in his unparalleled voice as he takes us down the streets of his Ireland, brushing against fate, God, and the horror of the perfect circumstances that lead to tragedy after tragedy that scraped this poor family down the cobble bricks and through the dirt.  The beauty of the memoir resides in the way McCourt writes, and his words demand to be leaned in and listened to in a hushed corner of a pub or library.  Gorgeous in execution, tragedy, and scope, this book is a marvel that it so accurately captures the Ireland that our ancestors have told us about, reminisced over, and whose ghosts still haunt them.Much of the criticism of this novel lies within this - that it exists as an almost stereotypical view of the Irish experience, and brandishes this stereotype as a weapon, the hilt made of an unbalanced truth.  I disagree with this criticism, as it is McCourt writing a true-to-life account, to the best of his recollection, of his battle with the real terror that seemingly creeps around every corner in this text: poverty.  I can also attest to not agreeing with all of the praise - such as several reviews I have seen comparing him to Joyce.  This is also not true, for as much as I love McCourt and his work, he is plainly not James Joyce just because he came from Ireland.  Actually, he is nowhere close to Joyce, and I do not mean this as an insult, but merely the fact that as a memoirist who is documenting his youth, he is not a postmodern writer like the author of Finnegan's Wake and Portrait of the Artist.  He is just as much of an Irishman, though, and the pages are just as soaked with the art, culture, and brogue of the people.I really enjoyed this book, and I will begin to recommend it to as many people as have recommended it to me.  It is beautiful, sad, and tragic, and makes for a document of a time that will never again exist in this form - but should be a warning of the dangers and horror of poverty, manic depression, and alcoholism everywhere.  Until then, well, `Tis.
5 One of the best books of the 1990s-this beautifully written memoir tells of the suffering of a poverty stricken childhood in Ireland of the 1930s and 40s-written in such a way that it captures the sadness of the suffering of the family, and yet retains a seismic wit that will make you cry and laugh in turn.Always written from the point of view of the child and teenager Frankie, at the age he is at the time, never from the perspective of an older man looking back, this is a book you wont want to put down and will stay with you forever.This book takes you from the eraluest memories of the auhtor as a toddler to the angst and burgeoning sexuality of his teens.Frank is the son of a alcoholic father who squanders the few wages he ever gets on drink (while making his children swear to die for Ireland), and a mother who struggles to keep the family together. It begins with his life until he is four in New York during the Great Depression, and then the family's return to the greater depression of their homeland, Ireland, where they live on a tiny government dole, and the charity of begrudging relatives.what makes this memoir so compelling is how the author juggles the different emotions, always with a ready wit, which makes this book a  classic, and yet always at the same time displaying to pathos and misery of the Ireland of this era.McCourt describes the loss of his baby sisters with heart wrenching realism. He has three more brothers, the more charming and easy going Malachy, the king hearted Michael who brings home beggars and stray dogs to the family's humble abode, and the youngest Alphie.Always pervasive is the grinding poverty, the oppressive and guilt-inducing all pervading presence of the Catholic church and education system ,and the fierce patriotism and resentment at Realm of the time of the 800 years of English domination and cruelty.But what always shines through is the refusal to forget the humour and hope, the appreciation of small things and nature, through such crushing circumstances, and always the hope. The memoir closes with the realization of Frank's dream and goal to emigrate back to the America of his birth. Ultimately it is a book of the life of life, and refusal to ever be sunk by circumstances-what makes it more inspiring is a true life story of the authors' childhood.
5 This was my third read of the book (I have also listened to the audio book several times) and I laughed until I cried just like the first time I read it. I could hear the voice of my Irish grandfather who had the curse of the Irish and the voice of my dear grandmother as she lived with his curse. I remember my own first Communion and the fear of allowing my 7 year old's teeth to come in contact with God.I'll be reading it again!
5 From the title I had no interest in reading this book initially. Then I saw the film on televison & finally read the book. What I had been missing! It showed me what the "difference" is between Catholics & Protestants in Ireland....almost like a caste system since they are both Christians but the Protestants are descended from the English & are wealthy for the most part while the Catholics are descended from the original Irish & are poor. The English got rid of them during the great potato famine by sending them off to America (sort of The Final Solution British style). McCourt tells how his destitute family actually WENT BACK to Ireland because they just couldn't make it in America. You have the shiftless , loquacious alcoholic & charming father & the poor down trodden mother. If anyone thinks poverty here is bad, only read this account of what it was like to be poor & Catholic in Ireland. The Catholic Church comes out very badly as usual by snubbing Angela & denying her sons any sort of hope for education or advancement.I was so impressed with the drama & even humor in these bleakest of circumstances that I went on to read Tis & Teacher Man ...the whole trilogy.You don't have to be Irish to laugh & weep at Frank growing up here.
5 Mr.McCourt walks us through his life of extreme poverty,without any &quot;light at the end of the tunnel&quot; and yet,he prevailed. It's amazing what the human psychic could endure and come out a shining star.  There was death, starvation, alchoholism, and poverty but love was always  twinkling. It must have taken Mr.McCourt a great deal to jot it down on  paper. God Bless.
4 Frank McCourt writes his memoir much like a run-on diary.  I didn't mind this, but I did question some of what he wrote.  This book encompasses his life from age three to age nineteen.  Most of the book focuses on his earliest years in this time span...from three to nine or ten.  I found it difficult to believe the minute details described by Frank from the very beginning were actual memories.  I certainly don't remember what I was doing every day of my three, four and five year old existence.  He describes returning to Ireland when he was three and his Dad carrying the twins who were crying from hunger, his Mam stopping every few minutes to sit and rest on a stone wall, watching the sky and listening to the birds.  Page after page, he describes precise conversations on non-consequential things, describes when and what they ate (or more precisely what they didn't eat).  It seemed the entire family lived most of their lives drinking tea and eating fried bread.  Three of the children died, and when reading the book, you will wonder how it is that any of them survived.  They lived on the public dole through the majority of Frank's years in Ireland.  The story is fascinating, but the author has been accused, by his Irish neighbors, of exaggerating the poverty and other events his family endured in the book.  When reading his bio, his own mother, Angela, discounted some of the story.  Whether she didn't want to admit to these things out of shame or was being truthful is something you will have to judge for yourself.
5 I just love this book and the voice of the author going through it.  Yes, I've heard the drama over one or two vignettes not being exactly true to history- however, the overall picture was well painted and the book was a thoroughly captivating read.
5 I own the recorded version, which was recorded by the author.  It is beautifully done and provides great insight into the life of ordinary people.  McCourt's Irish brogue provides the essential color needed for such an interesting life story.
3 If I discovered this book on my own, without all the media hype, I might have liked it better. The danger in media over-hype is my expectations were greater and thus my critical antennae tuned to a higher frequency than would be the case if this were a normal first encounter with a new author. Frank McCourt begins this book with prose that makes me fall in love--"The rain dampened the city from the Feast of the Circumcision to New Year's Eve. It created a cacophony of hacking coughs, bronchial rattles, asthmatic wheezes, consumptive croaks. It turned noses into fountains, lungs into bacterial sponges..." The first few pages are a feast for a lover of words, but this banquet doesn't continue beyond the first few pages. That's OK. Frank has a serious story to tell and his childhood was no bed of prose. Still I thought he lost control of his story-telling toward the end and simply got tired. The result is a book that goes down hill from a wonderful start. Do I regret reading this book? No. Do I wish the author more success in a sequel? Yes. I think he can do better and I hope he will.
2 I guess it would be a good book if you are okay with the unending misery of hunger and spineless alcoholism.  These books where the wife is so noble and long suffering while the father drinks the money away are so miserable it is hard to read.I understand in those days, there were not a lot of choices for women with children.  Certainly not divorce in Catholic Ireland at that time.I'm just saying after the first one hundred pages it gets redundant.
4 I will be absolutely frank (no pun intended) here and let you know this was a difficult read for me.  The memoirs of Frank McCourt were so devastating that I simply wanted to put it down and never remember that I had ever heard of it.  So why did I continue to read it?  It is beautifully written and I had such hopes that these children who knew nothing but starvation, death, chilled bones, bed bugs, and tragedy from the day they were a seed in their mothers womb, could find a bit of joy and happiness in their lives.  And as Frank McCourt shared his dreary childhood with me through this novel, he added lots of humor.  I found myself smiling when I knew I should have been weeping.  Without this humor, I don't know if I could have read about the alcholic father that worked all week only to take his money and spend it at the pub getting drunk while the children and his wife were home with no food, having to beg neighbors and strangers for something to eat.  Without McCourts humor I don't think I could read about how the children were beat and belittled by their teachers as well as other children in the name of learning.  Without a bit of humor I couldn't have forged on through the shameful treatment in the name of God that was dumped on this family by the church.  When I think about the life of these children and this family I guess without a few laughs in their lives they wouldn't have made it through their lives either. So I guess you are wondering if I recommend this book...yes.  Why, because this book is life.  Maybe not your life, and maybe not my life, but sometimes we need to know what other people have went through, and are going through to know.... my life isn't as bad as I thought!
5 Sad heartbreaking story of poverty, hunger, desperation for a family living in Ireland in the 1930s and 40s and how one child made it to America to fulfil his dreams.
3 This was a sad story of a family living in Ireland  Living poor, a husband and father who when he worked would drink his pay check while his family starved and begged for what little they could get. Frank the oldest son at a very young age had to grow up quickly to help his mom and siblings. At the age of 19 he escaped Ireland and sales to America.
4 Frank's story is unlike many I have previously read.  I enjoyed his storytelling style, and felt for the little boy he remininisced about.
5 I could Not put this book down, I had finished about three days, thoroughly enjoying it, often brought to tears by it. Its is very entertaining.  So Entertaining , in fact that I  dreaded the close of the book and went on reading it here and there again !It is my favorite book for the past year. Intrigued by the way it starts in the words and thoughts of a child and advances in the words of a very observant young person.  Mr. McCourt has great imagination, perception and memory of feeling/being young. He really writes as though he were 7 years old.I walked, book in hand in the house as not to put it down !His Writing Changes as he grows up, and when he is a young adult, the Writing is that of An Adult.Aside from it being So Well Written, the story itself,his childhood is timeless and classic.Poverty is something everyone understands, or should.Frank McCourt's mother Angela is not about pride, she retains  her dignity while doing anything she can to feed her children. She's a hero.His family suffers many tragedies, loss of children, lack of food.......Frank's own illness as a boy, etc.Despite Poverty and serious illness of which he is cured, Frank succeeds to  return to New York.Upon his return to The States, someone remarks of how great life can be in the states.The last chapter has but one word about this, which is "Tis" !
5 Is there anything better than Frank McCourt's book, ANGELA'S ASHES?  ***YES! ***  Frank McCourt reading ANGELA'S ASHES.  Every syllable he speaks says &quot;Ireland&quot;.  McCourt's voice is that of a master  story-teller.  He intones every humorous tale, every tragic account as only  the man and boy who lived through all of it could.Buy this audio book!  When you're done listening to it, lend it to all your friends.  You'll  never regret it!
4 Well written and engrossing but too depressing to get five stars by my reckoning. One of the hundred books you need to read according to Amazon. I agree.
5 This is the kind of book that you devour so much it is interesting. The words aren't enough to describe such a beautiful story and writing. It is extremely sad but it makes your life like the one of a king afterwards. You won't be able to complaint. It's strong and the only thing to do after you read this wonder, is to grab Tys, the sequel. Also very interesting...
5 Excellent story of how a child presented with such poverty and misfortune manages to work himself towards the dream of a better life in America.  The novel touches upon the religion, poverty and alcohol issues prevalent in the irish working class of Limerick.  Also covers themes such as "pulling yourself up by the bootstraps".  The character Angela frustrated me in her poor choices but then I think she never recovered from the tramatic tradgedies presented to her in the beginning of the novel.  So maybe she become numb to her decisions later on in life.
3 Bah humbug! Sorry to spoil the party, but I can't agree with the majority view that Angela's Ashes is a great book. Why greater praise is heaped on this book over others because it is &quot;true&quot; I can't quite  understand. Surely the truth limits the writer's talents - he is merely  reporting his perception of experiences.  What great novelists do is use  character, plot and style to give greater resonance to truth. This is  difficult for all but the very greatest of memoir writers, and is why the  memoirs of people who aren't already famous are usually unpopular. So in  that respect Angela's Ashes is a bit of a phenomenon. An interesting aside  is that apparently those living in Limerick at the time Angela's Ashes is  based in, and who remember the McCourt family, have disputed the version of  events as told in Angela's Ashes.Anyway, ignoring the authenticity  issue, my main gripe with Angela's Ashes is that, as a piece of literature,  it is adequate but no more. I suppose the aspect that most people find so  rewarding is the &quot;triumph over adversity&quot; theme. I'm not  disputing that McCourt endured a pretty horrible childhood, but what I did  find unappealing was the passivity of his response - and the implicit  assumption that this martyr-like attitude was somehow praiseworthy.  Stylistically Angela's Ashes is OK - minimal, downbeat, conversational, but  I thought the characterisation a little weak - I didn't learn an awful lot  about Angela, while Frank himself comes across as a bit of a non-entity.Angela's Ashes, the Pulitzer Prize winning phenomenon, is OK in my  opinion, but if you like genuinely funny, charming, sad and heartwarming  tales of working-class Irish upbringings, Roddy Doyle's Barrytown Trilogy  is a considerably better read.
5 Angela's Ashes is an excellent memoir about Irish poverty told from the viewpoint of a little boy. Frank McCourty's writing style is addictive and poignant; through Frankie's eyes, readers can understand and sympathize on a whole other level than the little boy who accepts the poverty and everything along with it but dreams of something better.My only complaint about Angela's Ashes is that it goes on a little too long. And pretty soon there is a big jump from the years that were developed and slow to all of a sudden Frankie being grown, and the writing style is still the same. When he's eighteen, he still looks through the eyes of a ten-year old.
5 I had barely finished the first paragraph of Angela's Ashes when I knew I would love it. Sure enough, the entire book kept me tied in to the story. I love Frank McCourt's writing style, his attention to detail, and the way he turned his negative experiences into a fantastic story. I was hooked from beginning to end.
4 Angela's Ashes is a strange book. Frank McCourt's ability to find humor in the least expected situations of life is quite extraordinary. Around the mid part of the book, it is perfect and really unstoppable as the characters grow on you. McCourt lived in Limerick,Ireland with his family after his parents moved from USA.His experiences in school, farms, castles, workplaces, hospitals, Laman Griffin, hills, bars, green sofas and at various grocery stores and sundry are all contained within this book.Despite his character flaws, Frank's father was my favourite character of the book. His awkward style ,his funny formal yet dinty, his och aye's, his mannerisms of an aristocrat(who wouldnt go out asking for help but would let his wife and children do the same), his patriotic drunkards' swag, his silent confused love-hate relationship with Angela and his keen optimistic religious side is what really intrigued me. It was sad when the book ended without a word from him. Also Angela never finds out what happens to her red dress and that was a tad queer but then again, there already are a thousand problems in Frank's interesting life."Angela's Ashes" is not just a memoir, it's a confession. There is nothing conventional about the author's overenthusiastic yet calm writing skill. He comes accross as the most patient, keen, willing to work, flexible family man. Frank was the eldest son and he suffered from typhoid and an eye disease. I loved the Uncles and couldnt stop myself from laughing when Frank wore his dead grandmother's black suit. Frank took those jabs at his head with a light heart. To me, one of the funniest points in the book were the ones where the author,as a kid, would refrain from asking questions in fear of getting jabs at his head by the elders.Ireland's description,as a nation, is unique and wins heart. It's good to hear about the opinions of various types of people long gone and forgotten. Religion,catholics and protestants, their hate relationship with their hell and heaven concepts were quite interesting.I didnt know what to think once this book ended and I will definintely be reading the sequel titled "'Tis" soon. Some other things I loved about this book include Question Quigley, the teachers at school, Aunt Auggie, Paddy, Michael McCourt, Malachy McCourt, Angela's dance partner in the "good old days" who's also Paddy's father, Eugene and Oliver's twin love relationship.I cried a lot when I read about Eugene and Oliver's demise. It was heartbreaking when one tries to console each other in few futile ways upon the death of a near loved one in the immediate family.I absolutely love this book
5 I read this book many years ago, and I still find myself thinking about it from time to time.  This was a wonderful, yet morose, novel.  This story lays out a compelling story of how Frank (barely) survived childhood in the hands of poverty and alcoholism. Frank's story just gets more and more depressing as you read, but his need to survive is unquenchable.Truly, a wonderful book!
5 Angela's Ashes: A MemoirI have to agree with most everything other reviewers have written, the good and the bad ... the 1-stars through the 5-stars.  It took a few chapters for me to become accustomed to the writing style ... lack of quotation marks, mostly missing commas, and run-on sentences. A few chapters seemed to run a bit long, but overall, this story had me captivated from beginning to end. It can easily evoke tears of poignancy as well as tears of laughter. I would definitely recommend this book, and have given it five stars.
5 I just finished reading Angela's Ashes about five minutes ago, and I felt it necessary to write this review for the sake of anyone who grew up in an Irish Catholic family.  YOU MUST READ THIS BOOK.  I laughed out loud about  every three pages from just the bare bones observations of a young Catholic  boy.  From going to confession, to associating what you learn at church  with what you see in life, Mr. McCourt hit it right on the head.  I think  this book should be in the personal library of every Catholic that can  laugh at themselves, and the sins of our religion.
5 I stayed away from this book for many years because I thought it would too sad.  Boy was I wrong.This is a wonderful book.  A lesser writer would make this story depressing.  Its hard to imagine poorer conditions in which to spend ones childhood.  Yet in the hand of this master storyteller, events that would be depressing become colorful and amusing.  I found the book so engaging I did not want to put it down.After finishing this book I immediately read Tis, which begins where this story leaves off.  You probably will too!
4 The story definitely flows well and gives a good perspective on that years and on the protagonist life. definitely worth reading and understanding.
5 This is one of the best non-fiction books I have ever read. It really touched my heartstrings to read how this poor young boys and his family had to live and how their mother struggled to keep food and clothes on her children while putting up with a drunken no good husband.
4 I thought it was a good story about how Frank endured and then overcame poverty.  It gives one a knowledge that we can rise and overcome problems of our youth.
5 I read this book years ago and it left a mark.  It's one of the best autobiographies I've ever read, mesmerizing to say the least.  Mr. McCourt recounts his childhood in Ireland, surrounded by poverty and hunger, up until the time when his dream comes true: going to the USA in search of a better life.The prose is powerful and conveys a very clear picture of his life.  It makes you laugh, it makes you cry, some graphic descriptions might even make you look away, but what I truly liked about this book is the absence of sorrowfulness, especially when depicting some incredibly miserable events.I went on to read " 'Tis ", the sequel, and found it to be as good as "Angela's Ashes", perhaps a bit less powerful but great nevertheless.  Get both books if you haven't yet read them.
4 The sole merit of this memoir is Frank McCourt's perserverance through poverty, famine, and filth.  Humanitarianism and altruism are replaced by sanctimony. Any alleged humor existing in this story is lost on me.  Desperation leading to absurd circumstances hardly qualify as humor. It really is amazing how much suffering humans can endure.  McCourt really is a Robin Hood of hearts. The story teaches an important lesson-- gratitude --- and succeeds inspite of itself.  The prose and narration of the story is dismal at best.  McCourt's style is one of a middle-aged man attempting (and failing) to write in the style of a young boy growing up in destitute Ireland. Often, he fails in this endeavor. There is a peculiar mix of old and young story-telling which truthfully doesn't work. Incessant, excessive italicized poems and recitations do little to enhance the reader's appreciation of the rich Irish culture or even, to elevate the story. After the first dozen, I ignored these automatically.  Endless pages describing excrement and other bodily secretions are repulsive and unnecessary.  The point is clear, yet it is made over and over again.  Though I felt a sense of relief at the end of the story because of McCourt's opportunity in America, I was also very disappointed. Perhaps the editor should have eliminated the entire middle section (tedious) and included a last BRIEF paragraph on McCourt's life in America--where he attended university, marriage,  relationship with his family, how he decided to write the memoir.... Even considering all these negative elements of the story, I still believe that McCourt deserved the Pulitzer for his intensive compilation of all these memories, if not for his style of writing. He is a great man, and very rich as he deserves to be.
5 This book is the account of Frank McCourt and the reminiscences of his childhood spent in Ireland. The story is told from the perspective of young Francis Mccourt, from the young age of 5 until he hits the age of 19, and we see him mature before our own eyes as the writing manner changes from chapter to chapter. This is a story of how Francis McCourt lived and survived through the desolation of his childhood, with a drunken father. The start of the book is very depressing, with the death of Frank's baby sister, following deaths of his twin brothers, many parts of the books still have funny descriptions. I found myself laughing along the way reading this book and defiantly putting a smile on my face. It is truly amazing the kid has not gone into depression in such an inconsiderate atmosphere. He even had dreams of going to America and earning big bucks, which many had tried to convince him to forget. Frank is one determined person to succeed. This is a book not to miss, the insight of Frank is truly amazing and you see life through a totally different light!
5 This is the true story of a struggling Irish family during the depression. The description called it humorous and heartbreaking and while I agree with the heart break I found no humor in these pages. The sheer enormity of the suffering of the poverty stricken in that era nearly knocked me over. Children starving literally to death while their father drinks his entire pay check in the bar except for what he wastes buying drinks for others is not my idea of humor. A child so hungry he literally licks the grease off a newspaper made me want to cry, not laugh. This was a very emotional read for me, and had me wishing I could somehow go back in time and give these people a bag of groceries! Read it if you think you can tolerate the raw and savage emotions it will surely evoke.
5 Like much of the United States, I first stumbled across &#34;Angela's Ashes&#34; when it first came out in the late 1990s. I remembered reading it and loving it, but couldn't remember much of the story itself when I took it off my bookshelf a couple weeks ago. With St. Patrick's Day looming, I figured it was time for a trip back to Ireland - even if it was only on the page.The memoir is about the childhood of Frank McCourt, born in New York and raised in Limerick in the 1930s. The eldest of many children, Frank grew up in abject poverty with a father who drank away the family's money (either his wages or the dole, whichever they happened to have at the moment), a mother who tried everything to keep the family together through disease, depression, and death, and his brothers. By the time the family arrives in Ireland, a younger sister has died, and there are several more sibling deaths before young Frank reaches the age of ten.It's difficult for those of us in 21st century America to imagine this life, but it's not at all depressing. McCourt has a way with words, not only in the scrapes that he got into as a child, but in his way of telling them. Perhaps the most telling is an essay he wrote at school called 'Jesus and the Weather', where he concludes that if Jesus had lived in Limerick rather than Israel, he would have died of consumption early on and there would be no need to write the essay in the first place. He has a dry wit that is both delightful and self-deprecating, and his way of building up the imagination through how he tells his story makes you feel as if you are there, living it with him.Perhaps the most important thing to remember when reading &#34;Angela's Ashes&#34; is that this is not a work of fiction. This is the story of McCourt's childhood, and it's a miracle he managed to survive at all, much less with as much humor and wisdom as he did. The first in a trilogy detailing the former teacher's life, it is at once uplifting and hopeful, a tale of survival, love, and how much we are all defined by the places in which we live and the people that we love.
5 I honestly thought I'd take forever reading this book, but it's definitely a page turner!  So many times I seriously wanted to choke the life of out the dad!  They say what doesn't kill you makes you stronger and this book is proof.  In many ways it reminded me of the book "The Painted Bird" by Jerzy Kerzinski(?).  Both endured numerous suffering at the hands of those we are taught to trust and respect, namely adults and the church.Luckily, I was born in the post-war era of the 50's/60's in the U.S.  Although we too; went to bed hungry, we seldom had heat,water and electricity (because my dad was nearly identical to Frank's) yet somehow we persevered.  And we did what it took to better ourselves as each generation should.Children today whine about how "rough" they have it if they can't get a cell phone, I-pad, expensive dress and limo for the prom etc.  Most have everything handed to them, without question or earning it.  If only they could spend time in countries where a scrap of bread and clean water are considered luxuries!But I rant away needlessly...READ this book and perhaps the Painted Bird and thank the Good Lord for every day you wake!
2 I read this book, it seemed to take forever. I wanted to finish because it was supposed to be amazing, I never found what so so great about the book. All I found was sadness - the children where put through a lot of unnecessary pain and sadness, I think I would have liked the book a lot more if he had put more of how his adult like turned out better than his childhood
5 For some unknown reason, I resisted reading this book for a long time. It was only when I realized that a movie had been based on this book, that I decided to read it. (For a book is always superior to any movie ever  made)I knew I was hooked when I read the first two paragraphs - I don't  know if it was the power of those paragraphs, the fact that Irish is my  heritage or the fact that I had occassion to talk to a friend of my  mother's who is originally from Ireland and came to this country 20 years  ago.It is amazing to me that the circumstances in this book are so  relatively recent.While many of the remembrances of Mr. McCourt are  terribly sad (I have relatives who lived through similar circumstances) - I  must say that I literally laughed out loud at a couple of things that he  recounted. This is what we do to survive - remember the funny things (and  sometimes recount them in an even funnier way).This book also touches we  all have to deal with to one extent or another. Dysfunctional families  didn't start with the 1990's.Above all, as an American, it made me  remember why everyone across the world for the last 200 years sought to  come to this country. I cannot imagine what it must have been like, and  indeed still is - to arrive in this country (with all of its promise) to  look up and see the Statue of Liberty and the shores of the United  States.For anyone who thinks this must be a truly depressing book, try  it. I think you will be pleasantly surprised.
4 It is hard to read this book and still think that life is tough.  Here is the story of a young man who is raised in the poorest of the poor in Limerick, Ireland who had to beg for food to eat, pick up coal off the streets for heat, write threatening letters to friends and family for extra money, and even help tear down a wall in his house to feed the fire.  It sure made me feel spoiled and appreciate the good life that I have.I liked the stories.  Every childhood is this eventful, or at least should be.  You learn to like Frank McCourt and even identify with him as he questions the things in life, like the angel on the 7th step and religion in general.  You read as Frank McCourt spends years saving up money so he can do what his teacher urged him to do: Go to America where he can have more opportunity.I loved this book and the movie did a very fair job of depicting the events of this book.  My only complaint is Mr. McCourt's lack of quotation marks.  Sometimes it is very hard to understand who is talking at a given time.  You can figure it out from the context, but you would expect more from an English teacher.  The quotation marks would have made it flow better.However, I would not hesitate recommending this book to anybody.
3 When I first started listening to "Angela's Ashes" I was hoping for a glimpse into the life of the common Irish.  Much of the book was an absolute delight, whole other parts were very distasteful."Angela's Ashes" is Frank McCourt's story of his life from his first memories in New York, through his childhood and teen years in Limerick until he is able to save enough to return to America on his own.At the start of the book, McCourt says: "My father and mother should have stayed in New York where they met and married and where I was born...Worse than the ordinary miserable childhood is the miserable Irish childhood, and worse yet is the miserable Irish Catholic childhood."  He then writes a first person stream of consciousness narrative to prove his premise.The parts of the book which were absolute delights were the parts in which one is treated to the language of the Irish with all of their peculiar phrases, expectations and beliefs.  While listening to these selections, I was reminded of some of the phases which I have heard from my Irish born relatives.  Some of the beliefs and world views illustrated did not seem so different from some of which I have heard or even held.  There is just enough truth to make the quotations humorous.I am glad that I listened to the audio version which was read by the author.  His Irish accent made the book more entertaining than the written word would have been.  I noticed that the pronunciation was not always the way the book was writen.The oppressive and endless poverty and burden of alcoholism are depressing but, in his as in too many families, real tragedies.The characters are, perhaps, realistic dichotomies.  Malachy, seems to be a good man when sober, but his weakness for the drink renders him an irresponsible father.  Angela, the mother, seems to be a an incompetent personality who, somehow, manages to hold her family together when with little and, eventually, no help from Malachy.  The initial, cold receptions of the McCourts by their families in Ireland ultimately give way to  grudging acceptance and assistance. Frankie, the author and narrator, begins as a naive child who, forced by circumstances, becomes a self sufficient adult.  Perhaps the tragedy of Frankie is that, immersed in a world of hardship and formal religion he learns much about self-sufficiency but little about morality.The parts of the book which I found to be most distasteful were the later sections which degenerated into what would have to qualify the work for an "X" rating.  Perhaps this is McCourt's ultimate way of proving his premise that the worst childhood is an Irish Catholic childhood.  I suspect that this would have been a better book had the immorality been eliminated from the later sections, but, perhaps, it would not then have conveyed the intended message.This book is enjoyable to read in parts and I am glad to know what it is about, but any endorsement would have to be lukewarm.
5 You brought back feelings long suppressed about being a child in a poor, Irish Catholic family. Words fail me in talking about this book.  Only my deepest of emotions which cannot be conveyed.
5 It;ll make you cry, but it's an incredible story of survival
5 This is one of those rare instances when listening to a book being read is better than reading it yourself.  I bought this copy of the book for my daughter, who chose it as her summer reading assignment.  Yet the version I treasure is the audiobook, read by the author himself.  My daughter would not have read the book if I hadn't played the audiobook in the car.  Your imagination can't do justice to that Limerick accent and wry delivery; you are hooked in the first two minutes.  A warning: if you listen to it with a young child present, you are likely to have to answer a lot of embarrassing questions.Of course it's a wonderful book: funny, poignant, heartwrenching... you can keep loading on the adjectives.  It has its own music and rhythm as it moves from one small incident to the next, painting a picture of a childhood defined by unimaginable poverty.  The narrative moves from a child's acceptance of his circumstances to the adolescent's ruthless determination to find a way out, while never abandoning the family that mean so much to him.  And the author manages to accomplish this without a trace of sentimentality, and with plenty of deadpan humor.  I would recommend this book - or audiobook - to anyone old enough to cope with its unrestrained language.
5 When I first started reading this book I thought it was a novel and then quickly realized it's the author's memoirs.  What an amazing story to tell and excellently written.  I'm so glad he shared this with us. This book would appeal to any adult.  It makes you laugh and cry.  I hope to read more from Mr. McCourt.
4 A sad yet humorous memoir of Irish childhood... Frank McCourt gives a no-holds-barred account of growing up in a family riddled with domestic tragedy - dead siblings, poverty, drunkard good-for-nothing father who drinks his dole money while his children starve, desperate and helpless mother, less-than-sympathetic aunt and grandma - amid tyrannical schoolmasters and the ever-oppressive Catholic priests in the background.But to pare the cast that informs McCourt's growing years down simplistically to stock-characters  is to do injustice to the at-times dual nature evident in the true-to-life personalities one encounters in real life.The following lines reveals his contradictory feelings he has about his father, which also provides a glimpse of the heartbreakingly innocent perspective McCourt employs in his narrative:'I think my father is like the Holy Trinity with three people in him, the one in the morning with the paper, the one at night with the stories and the prayers, and then the one who does the bad thing and comes home with the smell of whiskey and wants us to die for Ireland.'Rough-hewn honesty that will touch the most-hard-hearted and cynical among us.
4 If you can appreciate one of the most brilliantly written stories of the 20th century, you will like this book.  If you have ever laughed, ever cried, you will like this book.
4 McCourt paints an outstanding picture of life in post-famine Ireland.  McCourt reveals the story of his own life growing up in poverty, with a drunken father, death, love, and a Catholic upbringing.  This books is filled with sadness but ends on a happy note.  A great book.
3 This is not a happy story, yet it was very well written. Like most Irish authors, he writes with great sincerity. He makes you feel at home in his narrative. Although his family is very dysfunctional, there is a sense of love, warmth and unity that is undeniable. The only thing I didn't really like about this story was his resignation to their life of debauchery and deprivation. His attitude was:"This is the way we are and we are not going to change. Deal with it." This is not a positive attitude. He never showed any hope for a positive change in his life, and it didn't end with a lot of hope for the future. I think this story was a little overrated.
3 I thought it was wordy.  Things were repeated over and over again from chapter to chapter.  Found myself skipping lots of pages due to this.  Not really what I expected.
5 ANGELA'S ASHES tells the story of the author's childhood from his earliest memories in New York, his return to that America as a nineteen year old and the intervening years in Ireland.  His parents Angela and Malachy McCourt had met at a dance and we forced into marriage due to the imminent arrival of the author.  Neither parent was up to the task of caring for a family, it is implied that their families had been quite happy to see them emigrate to America and were less than thrilled at their return a few years later with children in tow.The McCourt children were left from an astonishingly young age to raise each other.  As the story opens four year old Francis and his three year old brother are responsible for their year old twin brothers.  Their father is usually out of work, a victim of the Depression, his Northern accent - unpopular in southern Limerick, his lack of education and his pride.  On the rare occasions that he does manage to get work he inevitably will lose the job by the third week, along with the pay envelope in the nearest pub.  Angela is perpetually pregnant, bringing the children into the world handing them over to the older ones to tend as the family sinks further into poverty.As McCourt grows up his perception of his life changes, as a young child he sees his parents as all powerful beings struggling to care for the family in a hostile world.  As McCourt grows up he realizes that not all children have only sporadic meals of tea and bread, live in filth or have fathers that drink up money meant for food or rent.  By the time he reaches his teens McCourt has also come to recognize that his mother also is not the long suffering innocent victim that he had seen her as earlier.  The reader is able to see the family decline over the years to increasingly worse housing, fewer meals and yet continue to survive as the children struggle to escape their background.There are tender and even funny moments in this childhood memoir as well.  Malachy tries to show his children the glories of the Irish past, both parents attempt to put the best light on their circumstances possible, referring to the flooded lower floor of their apartment as 'Ireland' and the relatively warmer drier upstairs rooms as 'Italy'.  McCourt describes the happier moments of his childhood as well, the wild games in the streets, the exciting highlights of Confirmation or bits of enlightment when he gets a glimpse of life beyond the slums of Limerick.McCourt's style is a bit unusual, many of his sentences go on to seeming infinity, making a rather slow reading at time.  The effort pays off though as he turns the bleak grimness that he describes into a sort of poetry.  This is one of those books that celebrates the indominatable human spirit, the power that some have to rise above the worst of circumstances to succeed in life.ANGELA'S ASHES is a book that belongs on everyone's book shelf, a book that needs to be taken down and read again and again.
1 This book has been so heavily hyped, I thought that it would sweep me off my feet.  What I got was hundreds of pages of mucus, vomit, stale food, and tuberculosis.  While these are a part of life, I don't photograph them and  hang them on my living room wall.
5 A heartbreaking but warm and funny tale of an unfortunate Irish family, told through the eyes of a child. Despite miserable poverty, an alcoholic father, and the death of three siblings, Frank manages to work his way towards a dream of returning to America. Major hardships are the backbone of the novel, but the author's use of colloquial language and religious symbolism adds lightheartedness to the suffering. A novel that can make you laugh out loud and choke with tears in the same chapter is definitely worth 5 stars, if not more.
1 It was written with talent and drew me in, which made it unfortunately hard to put down. But the book is so miserable and devoid of any hope or redeemable qualities, it left me depleted. There are hard books with difficult content that might be draining to read, but leave you thinking and growing in understanding. This book didn't leave me with anything. It took from me.In the beginning, it inspired disgust in his parents. It moved on, leaving me disgusted with his priests and teachers. In the end, it left me disgusted with the author himself. By the end, the deepest theme to stand out was that the author likes to have sex. Noted. Thank you. Those are hours I'll never get back.
4 Loved it. Very sad. So glad I didn't live then. The hardships, illness, death, and heartache was overwhelming, just as the perseverance.
5 My daughter had to read this book for her high school English class this year. This is not her type of book but by the time she finished it she was ready to read the sequel "Tis". She asked me to read it because she thought it would be something I would like. I am so glad that I did! This is fantastic. I wasn't sure at first that I would like it considering it was written from a child's point of view, but that turned out to be what made me love it. I think that McCourt is a very talented writer. When my daughter is finished with "Tis", I will be picking it up.
5 Such sad conditions for people to live in but amazing how humor was around each corner.....loved it! Looking for the next book by this author!
5 I was very impressd with this book.  I liked it so much I read it in six days.  I just couldn't put it down.  I am waiting to get a copy of &quot;Tis&quot; because I feel like I need to know what happened to with  the rest of McCourt's life.  My father lent me the book to read and  described it as depressing with a lot of dark Irish humor.  I found the  book very humorous and felt a common connection with McCourt.  His  experiences seem to be relative to all childhood experiences, just his are  in a more depressing context.  I felt the same way as he in many situations  of my own chldhood experiences, which were simlar to his, yet in a middle  class setting.  I have to say that every Irish-American should read this  book if not every American looking to laugh at life's depressing times,  from a young Irish man's prospective.
5 This is definetly the book to read if you are feeling sorry for yourself and a bit depressed. Frank McCourts touching true tale of his childhood is so sad and heartbreaking that it makes every day life in present day  America seem like a cake walk. This story really made me happy to be alive  and have such a wonderful upbringing, family and friends.
5 I never wanted the book to end.  After I had finished it, I ran to buy the sequel 'Tis.
5 I like the way Frank McCourt depicted his poor Irish Catholic childhood.So vivid,heart-whole and sorrowful make me empathize with him. He showed the bitter-sweetness of his younger days in Limerick, Ireland.Frank McCourt shared his life story with compelling narration and a great sense of humour. All the reality and poverty his faced. As the eldest son,he beared extra responsibilities and was less happier as compared to his cute,cheerful brother Malachy and many other brothers.  He had irresponsible but pathetic parent, poor living conditions  but a great hunger for knowledge and a dream to go to America.His memoir filled with dramatic twists and intriguing events such as his days as a postman and his troubles with his sore eyes....  He made a great impression for a debut work. He wrote with sensibility and sincerity.  This page turner shines in depicting the genuineness of humanity. It set a great example of the success of following your heart and to strike for your goal in life. If there's a will,there's a way.
5 As horrible as much of the circumstances in McCourt's novel are, this book was incredible.  This was one book that when I sat down to read it, I didn't do anything else until I had finished it.The words and descriptions within this novel are so amazing that you can see, hear, smell, and taste the situations that McCourt and his family were enduring.To go through the life that they had, and for Frank McCourt to make so much of himself, should be a lesson to everyone that feels as if life is unfair or treated them unkindly. Just because you come from poverty and unimaginable agonies, does not mean that you cannot proper and achieve your goals.
5 Writing a good memoir is very hard to do. This one is phenomenal. And while many sad things happen in this book, it is not truly a sad book, because McCourt is not a sad person; he is the archetypal story teller, and he has a basket-full of stories. This book is a treasure.
5 I love stories that have the rare ability to make you laugh and cry in the same sentence. This book has it. McCourt is so funny and quirky and at the same he has no problems revealing his heart-wrenching vulnerabilities... in all their sorrow. It really is a beautiful story and remains in my top ten list even today.
5 My girlfriend begged me to read this book and at first I was reluctant to read it. I read the first chapter and I couldn't believe this was a true story about someone's life. I read this book in one day and I can't believe how glued I was to this book! I normally like fantasy, sci-fi, philosophy or historical fiction. I was truely blown away about Frank Mccourt life and how he survived the depression especially in Ireland. This book was depressing and made me want to cry, I was hoping for a happy ending. Even though the ending wasn't what I expected it. It makes me want to read the next book. Great writing Mr Mccourt!!
5 I knew Frank McCourt in New York City, although not well.  He kept so much to himself I didn't have many interactions with him.  He sat on a stool in the corner of his brother Alphie's restaurant/bar on the Upper West Side of New York City, where I worked, sipping a glass of something, always alone.  This was a decade before he published Angelia's Ashes.  If one word described him then it would be "calm," although I once heard him refer to a bar customer as "a bloody Englishman."  He was quiet, polite, his gray hair well barbered, his clothes always neat.  The loudest thing about him was his Irish face, which for all the McCourts shouted "Mickey."  Sometimes Frank's brother Malachy came in and there would be three McCourts at the bar together.  Whenever a McCourt brother was asked a question he raised his eyebrows and stared off into the distance several seconds to ponder, pursed his lips, then answered in a resigned sigh as if loath to let go of the words.  This was usually followed with an ironic joke of some sort and then maybe a "Hah, hah!", with the accent on the last "hah."  Frank was an okay guy.  All the McCourts were sociable sorts.I never suspected Frank had a rugged childhood because there wasn't a hint of it in his demeanor.  In his memoir he describes being one of an underclass of County Limerick poor (some of whom today contest the veracity of his memories) who were destitute and starving in the 1930s and 40s, living on tea and bread bought from the public dole.  The McCourts' father, Frank writes, could not go three weeks without spending all his wages on an alcoholic binge, losing his job as a result.  Their father left for work in London during WWII and seldom sent his family back anything, presumably drinking what he made and lying in English gutters on the weekends.  The harsh nature of Irish culture in Limerick at that time exacerbated the shame and humiliation felt by the McCourts for being destitute.I have a feeling that, like all good autobiographies, some events and characters in Frank's book were enlarged, some reduced, others adjusted and sculptured to focus and shape the narrative.  If George Orwell did that sort of thing in books like Down and Out in Paris and London then Frank McCourt deserves the same latitude.  Frank certainly re-spun the dialogue from what he remembered, aided by years being as aspiring writer and playwright.  Be that as it may, the text rings true and it is a thoroughly enjoyable book, narrated well by its writer.  It's a tribute to endurance and decidedly a book worth reading or listening to.
5 I am always leary of books showered with awards and praise. In this case, it is not just well deserved but I must add my own. This is one of the best books I have ever read. It works on every level. Interestingly, the book starts off almost with a dare. A kind of you think you had it rough growing up? Mr McCourt then uses the language of a child to describe his childhood in the slums of Limerick, Ireland among the poorest of the poor. Without a hint of self-pity he describes in crystal clear detail the sights, sounds, and smells of heartbreaking poverty. But with every sadness, there is laughter. Sometimes he seems to be revealing another layer of the human condition on every page. His compassion, his chicanery, and his remarkable use of the English language make you feel as though you are reading not just a fresh novel, but an entirely new insight on life. Missing your morning meeting, getting a flat, etc. will forever be placed in their true perspective.  This book is what literature is all about.
3 Angela's Ashes is a heartbreaking story about growing up desperately poor.  It is a story about the underside of Irish Catholicism.  It is a story of growing up in a totally dysfunctional family.  It is an easy read and captures the reader.I question the validity of this as a memoir.  It seems too harsh and too detailed on early life experiences.  How much of this memoir consist of family stories that have been filtered by numerous retellings?  How much of is diatribe against the English and organized religion?  We will never know, but his seems to be the case.The book is a good and worthwhile read, but I really did not feel that it is too slanted by political correctness.
5 Memoirs often depict adversity and extraordinary challenges that the author has endured throughout his/her life. Memoirs are not intended to entertain; they are written to offer us insight and enable us to connect with emotions we may or may not have experienced; to remind us of our humanity and of our obligation to have compassion for those less privileged or fortunate than we are.Writing a book is difficult enough, but writing a memoir is much more demanding for it requires a great deal of courage to revisit one's suffering, and to remain true to the essence of the story without the freedom to sugarcoat it to please a particular readership.  A reader, who is not interested in a true story, should look elsewhere.  There are always more than adequate reviews to let the reader know what to expect in a book.  Why then choose to read a memoir and be disappointed because it was sad and depressing?  Why give an author a one-star review because she/he told the truth and did not fabricate a life story that would make the readers `happy'? Worse yet, why give the author a poor review because Amazon did not deliver the product on time or because your Kindle failed you? This is utterly preposterous!In my view, McCourt has delivered his story honestly and skillfully. I learned about aspects of a culture that I was entirely unfamiliar with. The story captivated me, made me sad, and stirred in me a myriad of emotions that I recognized in myself and in all humanity . . .. It was everything that I expected from a memoir and McCourt delivered it beautifully.
5 I was fortunate to run into Frank McCourt (literally!) as he was walking out of a store in downtown Santa Cruz. I didn't have the courage to tell him how much I liked Angela's Ashes, so I will praise his wonderful book  here.McCourt's portrayal of an Irish Catholic boyhood in the slums of  Limerick is lovely without being precious, and heartrending without  descending into  melodrama.  Scenes such as Angela singing a tune with her  old sweetheart, or the McCourt's Christmas dinner (which is a bit like the  Cratchits, only more Dickensian) are presented in a style which seems both  rough and elegant, like the warp and weft of a thick fabric. The misery of  the McCourt's poverty, the betrayal of Frank's alcoholic father, and the  resigned nature of Frank's mother are rendered with poignance and simple  grace, without descending into cliche.I hope that this book continues to  sell well over the next few years.  Thank you, Mr. McCourt, and I'm sorry I  couldn't tell you all this when I bumped into you in person!
1 I waited until the book was in paperback to buy and only bought it then because I was going to Ireland and thought it might be interesting.  Not  much here.  The family was poor, the father was a drunk and the mother had  little inclination to better the situation.  Once you have this figured out  the book repeats it over and over.  Its one redeeming feature: The  narrative flows easily and one does not need to concentrate very hard to  read it, so it doesn't take long to finish.
5 This memoir touches on all your emotional senses. You will laugh, cry and become angry at the life experiences of this remarkable young man. The injustices of society and poverty revealed will truly humble you. It will make you stop and think before you judge those less unfortunate than yourself. I would recommend this read for anyone who care for their fellow mankind.
5 I have since read &quot;A Monk Swimming&quot; by Malachy McCort and &quot;Tis&quot; by Frank McCort. However, I loved &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; the best. I saw the movie too. Don't shortchange yourself with that route though...the book is a much more scenic road!
5 This book was kind of slow for the first few chapters but it sure got better with every page. This book makes you think that whenever you think you have it bad or don't always get what you want, just think of the  McCourt family and all the other Irish that suffered along with them and  know that you have it good and it could always be worse even though  sometimes it does not feel like it could be.
5 I am a fiction writer myself, and I must say that Frank McCourt is a genius.  His writing is effortless reading, but compacted with so much in so little space.  He makes Hemingway look like a mere pupil in comparison.  I can see why he won the Pulitzer.
5 Rarely have I read as stunning a literary debut as  Frank McCourt's splendid memoir. His poignant tale of his dismal childhood shall endure for  ages. It's a magnificient achievement from a generous and very funny man  who knows what it means to be human. I shall always consider myself blessed  to have been one of his prize-winning Stuyvesant High School students.  Without his encouragement, I would have never entered a citywide essay  contest sponsored by a New York City maritime association which earned 2nd  Prize as well as prize money shared by us. I can vividly recall passages in  &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; that he told originally to us in his class over  two decades ago. Humorous episodes that I hope I shall never forget.  Perhaps I shall follow soon in his footsteps since I have an unpublished  novel being considered for eventual publication by a noted New York City  literary agent. Frank certainly deserves all the success he's earned so far  and the many honors which still await him. He deserves no less.
5 Imagine being crammed into a one bedroom home with two siblings, an alcoholic father, an exhausted mother, a flooded downstairs, and the constant threat of tuberculosis, or even worse, death knocking at your door. On top of it all, imagine being so poor that going days without food is normal and an egg can be considered a delicacy. No matter how difficult that is to imagine, it was nevertheless the life of young Frank McCourt.Frankie grows up in the slums of Ireland where begging is commonplace and children must find jobs at the age of 14 in order to support their entire family. Frankie struggles to overcome his destitute life, the death of three siblings, and a father who drinks away all of the money needed in order for the rest of the family to survive. This is the world that you experience as you begin reading Angela's Ashes, a true-life memoir of Frank McCourt.Angela's Ashes takes place during the Great Depression where poverty runs rampant through the streets and even the most proud of families is reduced to begging in order to get a simple lump of coal. However, Frankie has the seemingly unrealistic dream of eventually travelling to America and starting his life anew. Throughout the course of the novel you are left wondering how Frankie can gain the physical or mental power to accomplish his goal.One aspect of the novel which I found very intriguing is Frank's use of "comic relief" in order to keep his otherwise depressing life hopeful and at least somewhat upbeat. Mikey Molloy, a cross-eyed friend of Frank who suffers from "fits" (seizures), is one such example of this sporadic humor. Frank even recounts one time when Mikey fakes one of his fits in order to sneak into the movie theater. "...I'll pretend to have the fit and the ticket man will be out of his mind and you can slip in when I let out the big scream...That's what I do to get my brothers in all the time."  Scenes like this really kept me smiling throughout the sadness in Angela's Ashes.McCourt's writing style also provides a relieving mixture of both comedy and sorrow. At one point, Frankie contracts typhoid fever and describes his experience with the doctor in charge. "It's dark and Dr. Campbell's sitting by my bed...He tilts over on the chair and farts and smiles to himself and I know now I'm going to get better because a doctor would never fart in the presence of a dying boy." Through the innocence and naivety of Frank's voice, I felt as though I could really understand and feel what the author was feeling while recounting his life.Despite all of the comedy throughout this novel, the author never loses sight of the main aspect of the story: the sorrow. Frank basically has to support his entire family by himself at a very young age because his dad is always at the bar drinking away every penny he earns. From the age of three to nineteen, Frankie moves from one house to the next, and each time the conditions get worse and worse to the point where Frank and his family have to live next to an outhouse which is shared by the entire street they live on. Not only that, but Frank's mother, Angela, has to spend all day scrounging the streets for whatever scraps she can find to help her family survive.Angela's Ashes has become one of my favorite books. Although I would suggest it to a more mature audience due to some of its scenes, I would still recommend this book to anyone who wants to learn more about Frank McCourt's struggle growing up in Ireland. I would easily give this book an "A." I never lost interest in the plot no matter how depressing it was and the characters always kept me compelled to learn more about their plight and hardship. You'll laugh, you'll cry, and most importantly this book will make you appreciate what you have and realize that we have it pretty good here in America.
5 This is such a difficult book to read, especially if you have a bit of Irish heritage in you and realize you're basically reading the story of your own ancestors.  But it's not just about the Irish, it's about being a minority in America at any point in time, and told through the eyes of a child, you just ache, because it's true.
4 Via his childhood memories, Frank McCourt offers a poignant, unflinching view of a poverty so grinding and oppressive as to certainly be almost unimaginable by most readers. Indeed, I had to frequently remind myself  that the years described were endured not in some pestilential  Victorian-era slum, but in the mid-1900's. My only criticism is the lack of  an epilogue to the story. What ever happened to the elder Malachy McCourt,  Frank's father, a devastating testimonial to a life wasted by alcohol abuse  and a peculiar melancholy which is endemic, I suspect, to the Irish? And  Angela, Frank's mother, a sure candidate for sainthood if measured by her  daily struggles to keep her children fed and alive? I hope God blessed  Angela's ashes and rewarded her with riches in heaven.Oh, and the book  is much better than the movie adaptation (3 stars) as the former has better  continuity between events, though the latter has stunning visuals and  superb acting performances.
5 Angela's Ashes was first published in 1996 (The edition listed here 1999), over fifteen years ago (The author, Frank Mc Court died in 2009) and still it  has stood the test of time and remains a budding all-time classic in literature.I remember waiting for weeks in order to check the book out at the library when it was released,  I tired of waiting and bought a copy, which is long gone. I have two copies now (people have a habit of borrowing it) and have reread the book more than once.The reviews, although old, are well worded and convey the crux and atmosphere of Angela's Ashes very effectively; I wanted to update the fact that all that is said in the reviews is still true today. The most striking thing about reading Angela's ashes is the in the moment and present voice of the author as he revisited his childhood with the childlike eyes, and feelings of a powerless and vulnerable child whose dysfunctional parents controlled his world. And what a tragic world they were all thrust into when the small impoverished family were back in Ireland living in the dark and dank slums during the rainy season. The only thing that rivaled the dark environment was the family dysfunction and abject killer-poverty.The beauty of Angela's Ashes is that the  power of the human spirit comes through, despite the odds.
4 I really enjoyed reading this book but was disappointed in the ending.  It leaves you wondering what happens to Frank.
5 What can I say? It pulled me in immediately. The humor he has at just the right moments, is genius. I could not stop reading this once I started. I remember not getting anything done that day once I read the first page. His writing style with quotes really works. Somehow the different voices jumped off the page and were almost audible. Just amazing&#8230;and gut-wrenching&#8230;and REAL. Even if there were little fabrications, it's clear there so much that is stark reality faced head-on and shared. I can't imagine much of the big stuff is untrue, nor can I imagine his inner thoughts and feelings were fabricated b/c so many of them were really not flattering. I think I need to read this again soon; it's been so long. PS - the second book was a huge disappointment but I'm still glad I read it and learned about his later life. It just seemed like such a different experience, book, voice, life.
5 A little clarification: &quot;novel:  fictional prose narrative in which characters and situations are depicted within the framework of a plot.&quot; (from Encarta)Friends, this is a memoir, not a novel.  It  is an account of lives actually lived, not a fiction.  Frank McCourt has  given us a long slice of life where the world is throwing its all at a  family, and the individuals are responding with varying degrees of courage,  determination, rage, hope, love and countless other admirable and  despicable traits.  Those who are disgusted by the details or the tone, I  can't explain.  But I can offer that this does not demean the Irish who did  make wonderful lives for themselves on both shores.  My mother's family  'made it' - but she 'got' this story as did I - whose life can't hold a  candle to even the mildest of the McCourt's trials.  And to those who would  rather not look upon such hardship, while Limerick is a very different  place today, a large portion of our planet still lives under such  conditions - or worse.  We do take such suffering and frame it on our walls  - only the frame is a TV and we only wish to look at it for mere seconds at  a time - where the gravity cannot reach too deeply into us.  Bravo Mr.  McCourt for showing us how to scale the most extreme hurdles dropped in our  way.  This is in some way a test of seeing the glass half empty or half  full - to live thru this with humor intact is the greatest triumph.
4 First, I liked this book a lot.  Now that I've got that over with, let me tell you that the laughter to tear ratio for this book is about 1 to 4.  Remember Grapes Of Wrath from High School?  This is much sadder in parts.  I always have at least one book with me when I travel and this one was the right size as well as being about the Irish.  (I am of Irish descent, so that alone is enough to interest me.)  I usually avoid the most popular books - I guess I'm not a joiner.  But when I saw this in paperback, I figured it was time.  This book goes a long way to enforce the misconception that every Irish mail is a potentially unemployed alcoholic.  And that they have such large families to make up for the fact that so many children die.  Sometimes it seemed they had children dropping like flies.  I was in a plane at 30,000 feet at abbout 11 PM reading about another child having died, with tears rolling down my face.  If you are looking for a good emotional catharsis, this might work for you.  It is certainly cheaper than an hour with a psychiatrist.
5 I don't usually read this type of thing but someone loaned it to me so I thought, let's see what the fuss is all about.  It's worth the fuss.  McCourt's prose is so descriptive you can smell the atmosphere (and the dirty people). The humor comes at moments you least suspect. If I had to  complain about anything it's that it doesn't go on longer.
1 This book was so poorly converted to kindle that it is not worth reading. I cannot get engrossed in a book that has gaps between pages. I am so disappointed with the lack of care respect that went into converting this to a kindle copy of a well known and respected book.
2 After hearing so many positive things about the book and putting off reading it, I decided to read it several years after its publication and subsequent movie release.  Not having seen the movie yet, I was particularly curious about the book.I was miserable but nonetheless captivated for the first third of the book.  The details and imagery were very poignant even though the style of prose (e.g. very little use of punctuation or dialogue indicators) was a bit difficult to get used to.  There were several moments when I was moved quite nearly to tears with sympathy.However, shortly thereafter, I began to get weary of the story and noticed that it did not seem to be going anywhere.  Furthermore, the older he got, the more I found myself disliking the narrator.  By the end, his endless ramblings about masturbation marathons and worse finally convinced me that I may finish the book but I certainly wasn't going to like it.I would not recommend this book.
2 There were moments of holding my sides laughing at the way the author wrote about his childhood...the school masters andother childhood memories of various other adult characters and childhood friends, and his childish observations and thoughts.There were sad and touching moments.  For example, the author was given much more responsibility than his maturity levelallowed in caring for younger siblings, but he did so willingly. He had a genuine love for his family in spite of all thedysfunction.  He held on to what little guidance and fun times his father gave him.  The reader can only imaginehow the author could have been helped if there were responsible adults around him to help him process the deep griefof losing siblings, and of not being properly cared for physically or emotionally or spiritually.I kept hoping that at the end he would rise above the nihilism and shallow faith with which he was raised.That didn't happen.  In fact, the author leaves the reader with the feeling that there really is no purpose to life.It was, therefore, very disappointing to see him leave us with not much more wisdom or moral character than his fatherhad.  Still, it is a memoir and not a novel.  Maybe things changed for him as he matured.  He was only 19 at the endof the book.This book has been placed on high school reading lists, and unless it is read with some guidance from a responsible adult,I don't see how it could be useful to young people who are forming opinions about life and about themselves.I tried finding some qualifications for Pulitzer prizes (this book won the prize for biography in 1997), but they werevague.  It seems that a book just needs to be nominated and enough of the committee has to agree.  I didn't find anyqualifying standards for being helpful or uplifting.The book does give a realistic view of incredible poverty.  (Imagine putting sugar in water when there is no milk fora baby!)  It also lends some insight into Ireland's not-too-distant social history. I do think that the author has agift for writing and storytelling, and he certainly has a very down to earth lively sense of humor.Sadly, though, if you long to be left with a feeling of nihilistic hopelessness, this is a sure bet.My main concern is that it not be recommended for young people without guidance.
5 Anaother great Franl Mc Court book. Well written in his usual style with attention to detail. Try as your fist Mc Copurt book or complete reading all of his books.
5 Never wanted this book to end. So interesting and entertaining. A great/must read. You will not be sorry that you read it.
5 Heart-breaking, funny, never maudlin, Frank McCourt recounts his excruciating childhood in such a matter-of-fact way that it's a marvel. You can be sobbing one minute, then laughing out loud a minute later. There are not enough words to describe my love for this book.
5 How do you tell a tale of a poverty-stricken upbringing with humor and grace?  Frank McCourt does it in his memoir in a way that will keep you turning pages long after the last time you said to yourself, "I really must put this book down and get ... done."After the tragic loss of his 7-week-old sister Margaret, Frank's family (dad, mom, 3-year-old brother Malachy and 1-year-old twins Oliver and Eugene) moves back to Ireland when Frank is four.  They are promptly turned away from their paternal grandparents' house and sent to Dublin, where they are told that Frank's father should be able to get some compensation for having fought for Ireland's cause.  This turns out to be untrue, and, penniless, they end up at the police station, where only the kindness of the officers gives them the money they need to continue to their maternal grandmother's home.Frank's father is a drunkard from Northern Ireland who can't keep a job longer than the third paycheck, and even the dole money he is given when out of work winds up going to drink rather than to feeding his family.  They live with fleas, in a unit that floods on the lower level, forcing them to spend much of their time upstairs.The reader finds out about the peculiar prejudice of the southern Irish against those of the North, easily distinguishable by their accents, and also about the injustice bred by poverty.  We see Frank and his family going hungry while other families eat, and Frank wishing that someone else could be his mother simply because then he could always have mashed potatoes or soup.  Siblings sicken and die, and his mother is shamefully reduced to begging for scraps to feed her children.  Other fathers go to England to work, as does Frank's father, but, unlike the other fathers, no money is sent to his family.  In spite of Frank's intelligence and the recommendation of his schoolmaster, Frank is turned away as an altar boy due to his poverty, and other doors are closed to him as well.In spite of it all, there is hope and laughter in this novel.  There are people we want to punch, and people we want to hug.  There is the small joy of having enough to buy a piece of candy or go to the movie, and the larger joy of sometimes having a full meal or a couple of coins in your pocket.This is a tug-at-your-heart, in your face look at a hardscrabble life that many of us couldn't imagine, written by someone who falls in love with the words of Shakespeare and with Wodehouse novels while recovering from typhoid fever in the hospital.  It is a tale that all readers will love, and I highly recommend it for anyone's shelves.QUOTESShe says that if Dad's job lasts we'll get proper cups and maybe saucers and some day, with the help of God and His Blessed Mother, we'll have sheets on the bed and if we save a long time a blanket or two instead of those old coats which people must have left behind during the Great Famine.That dog is a right Hindu, so she is, and that's where I found her mother wandering around Bangalore.  If ever you're getting a dog, Francis, make sure it's a Buddhist.  Good-natured dogs, the Buddhists.  Never, never get a Mahommedan.  They'll eat you sleeping.  Never a Catholic dog.  They'll eat you every day including Fridays.Your mind is your house and if you fill it with rubbish from the cinemas it will rot in your head.  You might be poor, your shoes might be broken, but your mind is a palace.
4 Och.  It's a word you see alot of in this book.  Also the repetition of a familiar theme:  Drunken father comes home in middle of the night after drinking his wages (or his dole money) at the pub and wakes his children up.  Forces them to stand or march in place as he offers them a penny to die for Ireland.  What precedes this madness is dysfunctional, codependent mom waiting hopefully, then less hopefully as time goes by, for said husband to come home with wages.  Och, och indeed.In between this sad tale we have the McCourt children, in constant need of food, milk, coal, housing, and most of all, sane parenting.  The miracle of this book is that McCourt finds the humor, the blessed humor in what otherwise would be one of the most depressing tales since Dickens.  Their poverty is just plain awful to read about.  Three of the McCourt children die in infancy or a little beyond, because their parents do not get medical care in time.It's a tale of survival, a lyrical jaunt through the madness of dysfunction, ignorance, and threadbare familial love.  You could see it as a tale of hope, if only you don't wonder what damage was done to these McCourt child survivors that can never be repaired.  If your childhood was tough, this book is for you.  However bad it was, this might make you feel like you did a lot better.  Cheers to McCourt for this bitter tale of woe with a pinch of hope thrown in.
5 This book already has a ton of reviews that give the gist of the storyline, so I won't repeat that here.  I do, however, feel compelled to share that this memoir is extremely well-written and I found myself teary-eyed several times.  When I was about 3/4 of the way through the book, I found myself busting out my checkbook to get donations out to charities that I've been putting off for awhile.  It has opened my eyes to the struggles that so many go through that I have no concept of here in my middle-class suburban world.  Angela's Ashes is not only a great read with emotional pull, it likely will change the way you look at the world and the place you have in it.  Happy reading!
5 This is a story of how Francis McCourt lived and survived through the bleakness of his childhood, with a drunkard for a father.  Although the beginning of the book is very depressing, with the death of Frank's baby sister, followed by the deaths of his younger twin brothers, many parts of the books still have numerous funny recounts.  I found myself smiling and even laughing throughout the book!The memoir is written from the view of Frank McCourt as a child.  It is a wonder that the kid has not gone into depression in such a harsh environment.  He even had dreams of going to America and earning big bucks, which many had tried to convince him to forget.  Despite this, Frank is still one determined person to succeed.The only thing that I dislike about the book is the lack of proper punctuation and sometimes spelling.  In whole, the book is still readable and understandable.  As this a such a superb book, this lacking can be easily overlooked once the reader is into the book.A book for all! (Except those who could not bear bleakness and discrimmation of any sort)
5 When I started reading this book, I was unsure whether I would finish it.  The young lives of Frank McCourt and his brothers and sister were so bleak.  McCourt's wonderful writing style pulled me through.  At every turn, the odds seemed to be against the remaining McCourt children (2 brothers and a sister died) ever seeing adulthood.  Despite the grinding poverty and despair of his family, McCourt somehow maintained his sense of humor in many parts of the book.
4 I really truly didn't wish to read this book at first, wondering if i would find it to be both inspiring and entertaining in one package.  I eventually picked it up off my &quot;i'm going to read that later&quot;  shelf and just read it, finding it to be thought prevoking and beautiful.  What surprised me greatly though...was it was also very amusing at  times...it made me laugh.  That was unexpected to say the least and it made  the book more enjoyable and interesting to read.  This book is beautiful  and touching, and sometimes, when it makes you sad, you have to remind  yourself that this is about a man's life...and it touches your heart even  more.  Worth the money...worth the read.
5 In his memoir Frank McCourt tells us the story of his miserable Irish childhood without holding a thing back. The tone is the same throughout - neutral and half-conscious; it is as if a child is narrating the story, not quite understanding the situation. There is no wallowing in self-pity and exaggeration, it is the events that make the reader gasp and not the writing that could have easily been overdone with the topic. There is no fluff to the story, it is simply a story of survival.
4 Angela's Ashes is a very heartwrenching story.  Born to a drunken father and a desperate mother, Frank learns at a young age to be the man of the family, caring for them in any way he can.  When Frank is about ten, his  father goes off to England in order to work a good job and send money home.  What he actually does is drink away every penny of his earnings leaving  his family of five to starve in the streets of Ireland.  He never does  return and Frank works doing anything he can find in order to feed his four  brothers and mother.  With each paycheck, however, he saves a bit to go to  America where he imagines all of his worries will be over.  It is a world  most of us can hardly imagine, constantly consumed with hunger, never  knowing how the rent will be paid or food provided for the next day.  To  have survived a childhood like this one, Frank McCourt must be an  extraordinary man.  To have written such a memoir, McCourt must be an even  more impressive mind and soul.  I look forward to picking up  &quot;Tis.&quot;
3 An okay book, did not hold my interest. I did pass it along to a friends. I do like to read memoirs
4 A very humorous book about growing up poor, Irish and Irish Catholic. Frank makes a very funny story about his poor, poverty poor, childhood.
5 I have listened to tales of Irish poverty from the father of a friend of mine, but until I read Angela's Ashes the vividness of just how deep that poverty was never jumped out at me. I couldn't put the book down, and I  can't help but think about the father of my closest friend, who survived  the same type of childhood. It's absolutely amazing, and Frank McCourt  writes it so well it just gets stuck in your hea.
5 Dazzled from the beginning of this book, so glad to have picked it up and started reading. There sometimes comes a book that you open it, and from the first sentence, you know that it is a good friend. This is that book.
4 this book is interesting to read,Mr. McCourt gives us an interesting account of his life as a child, the hardships he has endured and the trials he and his family have gone through.
5 It is amazing that a man could live through the things Mr. McCourt did and not only find the courage to write about it, but to be humorous and uplifting about it.  The child in the book knew his lot in life and still  enjoyed it.  What a lesson for us all to appreciate the things we have and  love those around us while we have them.  This book was inspiring and oddly  enough, although it was terribly depressing in many parts, it was genuinely  uplifting as well.  The courage and strength of Frank and his mother and  brothers should be a lesson to us all that there is always a bright side to  life if we only look for it hard enough.  I would recommend this book to  anyone.
5 I recently reread this book and found myself laughing and crying as if it were the first time.  McCourt is so raw and honest, and to think he lived this!  This book remains one of my top ten favorites--it is a tragedy that leaves one so thankful for their blessings, and reaffirms that humor can carry one through the most difficult of situations.
2 This book was great right up until the last few pages and then...WHAT?  After that horrible childhood of poverty, he did WHAT?  He steals money from a dead woman and gets HIMSELF out of poverty, leaving everyone else behind without so much as a fare-thee-well, has a tawdry fling with some low-lifes and decides that he has finally arrived?  Didn't he learn anything at all from his mother's struggles?  Shame on the author for telling tales that reflect so poorly on himself and, by extension, on the mother that raised him!
5 Frank McCourt has a rare gift for storytelling, that is evident throughout this autobiographical novel. It could not have been easy to write such a book, let alone such a book about your own family. His childhood was amazingly difficult, his parents were hardly able to take care of themselves, let alone 2 children and innumerable dead babies. The Ireland McCourt shows us is divided, cold, rainy, chauvanistic and impoverished. A country that inspires its citizens to love it and hate it simultaneously.This is a fascinating story, that many of us with Irish relatives can relate to stories we heard growing up about the old country. I find the book to be much better than the movie and would recommend it to anyone who wants to read an well written, moving, true story.
5 Who would have thunk that a memoir written in the voice of a 10-year-old Irish lad would win the Pulitzer Prize?Well, it did and the recognition was well-deserved.Yes, it's about desperate poverty, alcoholism, consumption, death, you name it - just one damnable thing after the other that confronts Frankie McCourt, his brothers Malachy and Alphie, and mother Angela.But the beauty of this book is its voice, the voice of the very young and very Irish Frank McCourt. It sings, it dances, it laughs at fear and despair, it's a melody of innocence in the midst of a purgatory-on-earth.Angela's Ashes is timeless, a treasure that is sure to stake its claim as a classic.
5 A quite breathtaking read, I couldn't put down. Its hard to believe the harsh reality of life and poverty that gripped Ireland not that long ago. I had to keep reminding myself that this wasn't fiction but a true account of McCourts early life. Well written with humour and surprisingly no bitterness. A must read for anyone who thinks their lot in life isn't so good.
5 As a high school teacher and a published novelist (my debut book is in its initial release), I understandably found myself attracted to ANGELA'S ASHES by Frank McCourt, himself an educator and an author.  In ANGELA'S ASHES, Mr. McCourt recounts the struggles of his youth in Ireland, his battles against poverty, and his desires for a better life.  ANGELA'S ASHES is an inspiring book that is beautifully written.  I recommend it highly to everyone.
5 This book has me hooked! I just finished reading 'Tis: A Memoir' and can't wait to start 'Teacher Man: A Memoir'
5 I'd only seen the movie before reading this and I was pleasantly surprised that the movie stayed pretty true to the book. I just wish I knew what happened to him/everyone in the end.
5 This is an amazing book as is his second book ('Tis) which follows this one.  Frank Mc Court is a powerful writer.  I cried, I laughed, I smiled.
5 Frank McCourt writes his memoir in the pitch-perfect language and consciousness of an Irish-Catholic boy.  This work is a wonder to behold and although the story is sad (as are most Irish stories) there is a strong current of hope running through the pages.  Young Frankie struggles against his broken home, the church, his own shortcomings and he finds tragedy and hope in the details of Irish life.  If you value great writing, language-skills and story-telling, you will love this work.  It remains one of the finest I have ever read.
5 McCourt writes so well, I wish it weren't a memoir.  I would read anything he put out there.  Really good stuff.  And the history of Ireland,  it really put a picture in an impoverished region I had no idea of.  This book was so vivid with emotions and places I still see the lane in Limerick where they lived near the loo in the tiny apartment called, &quot;Paris&quot;.  Pulls at your heart,  riveting.
5 Frank McCourt piles on so many examples of the overwhelming poverty he experienced during his childhood that I almost put down the book in despair after reading just forty pages. I'm glad that I didn't.Despite the  misery of his childhood, McCourt's memoir includes a number of lively and  humorous vignettes. Two of my favorites are his the account of his attempts  at Irish dancing, and the hilarious description of Frank's ill-fated first  Communion.Nevertheless, McCourt does not mask his anger at the  institutions that failed him and his dyfunctional family. School teachers  (with one exception) were uninspiring, church people shut the door in his  face or expected the poor to grovel for handouts, government officials  lacked empathy.McCourt doesn't fall into the trap of  over-generalization, though. Most people, despite their flaws, have their  redeeming qualities in McCourt's account. Most notably, his hard-drinking,  criminally irresponsible father also told beautiful stories, regaling Frank  with tales of Irish heroes. No hero himself, McCourt's father passed his  gift for telling an enthralling story to his son.
5 I found this book a surprise to me, I felt it was impactful and it had so many lessons to learn.  Loved it!
5 This is one of the best books I have read in a while! He just tells it like it was. Had me laughing and feeling sad.
5 I first read this book when it first came out. Since then, I have read it like five times. The first time I read it, it left a lasting impression on my mind that has not left since then and it still does it for me. I found his life fascinating. The fact that he had such a complicated childhood and still managed to find so much humor in all of it, is somewhat bizarre, but human. I did not know if I was supposed to laugh or to cry at certain times, but what captivated me the most was his sincerity. A sincerity that I had not found in a book since J.D. Salinger. Completely different authors, but both very honest about life. I wish everyone in the world would get a chance to read this book, it is truly special.
5 This book is the memoir of a young boy who was born in the US during the Great Depression who moved back to Limerick with his parents and brothers at the age of 4. It's a story about starvation and death and loss. But, it's also a story full of humor and strong family ties and hope.I admit it. I frequently eschew books that I perceive as being sad or brutal. This book was both, but I am sooo thankful I've finally read it. This book could easily have been emotionally exhausting to the point that people would have trouble finishing it. However, the author very skillfully gives the reader a bit of a cushion from the raw emotion of life in Limerick in the 30's and 40's by making the narrative voice a tough, laconic kid (his younger self.) Frankie talks about these terrible life events in a very matter-of-fact way. He just accepts these sorts of things as part of his life. He recounts it to us so firmly, it gives the reader the license to be sad without being overwhelmed by the horror of it. Being a champion book blubberer, I appreciated that.This memoir was a Pullitzer Prize winner and it shows.
5 Loved it.  Couldn't put it down.  Of note, I was visiting Ireland while I read the book which I am sure tempers my opinion.
3 Interesting story.  A bit "spicy" at times.  Wonder how much of it is based on what actually occurred at that time in history.
2 I read this story for a book club, and that sense of accountability was the main reason that I finished it.The McCourt family's life did not have to be so bad, and the children did not have to be malnourished.I know we have no right to judge others, but how could the parents keep spending what little they had on alcohol and cigarettes and give the babies sugar water to quiet them when they were hungry?  Didn't the children deserve some kind of priority?  Didn't this constitute child neglect?Some of the children did make it, but oh, things didn't have to be that bad.I must say, this book was depressing.  Although, more power to the author for ending up alright despite his childhood impoverishment and neglect.
4 I bought this book because, 23 years ago, I was one of the many students who took Frank McCourt's very popular Creative Writing course at Stuyvesant High School.  Frank stressed a particular theme in his teaching: good writing is suprising.  Forget every lesson previous English teachers have taught, or else you'll produce platitudes, not creative writing.  He hammered this lesson home in everything he taught.  He made us read satire.  He assigned writing tasks that sounded prosaic and made fun of us if we wrote something prosaic.  For example, he asked us to write a love letter and a hate letter.  He liked my love letter to a dead dog.  He adored Jonathan G's obscenely funny hate letter to a public figure.  Frank was completely at ease with students, he was charismatic, he entertained us, he spoke with us and never down to us, and yet he was always an authority figure.  And he talked constantly about his brother Malachy, who at the time hosted a New York area radio show.The first chapter of _Angela's Ashes_, about McCourt's earliest childhood in Brooklyn, New York, brought me back to my high school friendship with Jessica O'C.  I recall Jessica, who was so proud of being Irish-American, because her family's troubles sound so much like those of Frank McCourt's family, and Frank McCourt sees these troubles as characteristically Irish.  Ireland, devastated and robbed repeatedly by the English, beset with European class distinctions and snobberies, structured by the inscrutable Roman Catholic Church, cursed physiologically or culturally with a craving for alcohol, had only a harsh life to offer many of its people.  Disabled or alcoholic fathers allowed their hard-to-find jobs to lapse, their families to starve; babies and toddlers died from parental ignorance, from cold, wet, crowded, filthy housing, their immune systems weak from months or years of gradual starvation.  In these impoverished conditions, however, just as in my friend's family, surprisingly educated intelligences flourished, songs and stories were traded, and dazzling bits of beauty were rendered tragic by their surroundings.Frank McCourt describes all of this through the eyes of a gradually maturing child.  At first the child sees only what is immediate: his family, the relationships that are the substance of his life.  As his circle widens, he begins to glimpse the social and religious conditions that structured his childhood.  He learns more about his parents' lives and begins to appreciate the tragedy of the unforeseen turns their lives have taken.  Irish songs and myths animate his telling of the story, anchoring it culturally in the pleasure the Irish take in recitation, in the ways his own life repeats the songs, in the interpretive lens these songs and stories must have offered his earlier childish understandings of life.McCourt takes seriously the principle he taught his writing students: go for the unusual, the surprising.  The story unfolds through what looks on paper like Irish idioms, Irish customs, Irish understandings.  As the story's narrator matures, the perspective always shifts slightly.  And the reader is always a bit on edge emotionally, as McCourt shifts back and forth between the comic and the tragic, never allowing the reader to become bored with an emotional plateau.  (Just when I thought I couldn't take any more dead babies, for example, just as tears were streaming down my cheeks and I was about to put down the book for good, McCourt launched into a wonderful satire of the Catholic Church, through the eyes of a little boy studying for his First Communion.)The book jacket also says &quot;Winner of the Pulitzer Prize.&quot;  I agree, it's a good book.  It hardly matches an old Pulitzer prizewinning book I read recently, Annie Dillard's _Pilgrim at Tinker Creek_ for philosophical depth, scientific breadth, or even sheer literacy.  But it drew me into its world.  Bits of the book kept popping up in my memory, and I often mistook them for fragments of my own recent dreams.  Scenes from the book seemed to play on the horizon of my den as I attempted to engage in routine activities, like building block towers with my children.  Not only did the book draw me in, however, it also dumped me back out into my own world with some fresh understandings about Ireland, poverty, childhood, character, determination, satire, my high school writing teacher, and, of course, writing and storytelling themselves.
5 If the extreme poverty endured by Frank McCourt was responsible for producing such a gifted writer, then perhaps a few current best-selling authors should have grown up in Limerick, Ireland, wearing tires for shoe soles and being forced to vacate the bottom floor of their apartment during the winter due to the flooded conditions therein.The most striking thing about &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot;, besides the lyrical prose, is the pervasive tones of forgiveness and love.  Nowhere are these more evident than in the passages describing little Frankie McCourt having to hunt through all the pubs on his street to find his father, who is somewhere drinking away 5 pounds sent to the family in honor of a new baby.  The reader is impressed by the lack of bitterness in the grown Frank McCourt; he simply tells what happened with warmth and humor and compassion.Whether the reader is laughing at the author's frank, hilarious descriptions of his own sexual awakening, or shaking his or her head over the passages describing the deaths of his two brothers and only sister, they will, as they close the book, wonder immediately when the sequel will be available.
5 This is a great book about a man who escaped brutal poverty. Irish folks need to chill out though. No one said all Irish people are like the ones in this book. No need to get all mad about it.
5 At first I really didn't know what to think as I began reading Angela's Ashes.Angela's Ashes: A MemoirThe author basically writes with an Irish accent. I had been looking forward to reading this book for a long time and I was kind of worried that this style of writing was not going to work for me.I guess I was very wrong. This was a wonderful read! The stories and his style were perfect! I loved everything about this book except that it ended! It was so sad and desperate at times and funny at other times. I found myself smiling as I read of the conversations between Frankie and his Grandmother. I have met quite a few people that had come over from Ireland in my time but by just reading this book, I felt as if I knew them that much better.Of course I will read the next book "Tis" because I need more!
4 I enjoyed reading Angela's Ashes, however, I was rather annoyed by the ending.  Never have I seen such a blatant attempt to &quot;force&quot; a sequel!  I mean, Frank is on the boat, he's coming to America, and  then....that's it!  What sort of a denouement is that!  None!  It's as if  Frank McCourt said, &quot;OK, now you have to buy my next book!&quot;Two  other comments/questions: 1)  How in the world was Angela able to afford  Frank's dancing lessons when her children were dying of  starvation/malnutrition? 2)  Why is the book called Angela's Ashes?  (Does  anyone know?  Has the author ever said?)
3 Angela's Ashes has a lot going for it.  It describes an absolutely horrific childhood in Ireland during the 1930s/1940s.  I had no idea there was so much poverty in Ireland only a generation ago.  Very eye-opening.  The book is also very accessible (ie, easy to read).But upon finishing  the novel I didn't quite understand what drove folks to survive through  such hardship, and why most seemed to be fatalist about their plight.  While I can understand that perhaps Frank McCourt, as a child, didn't have  much thought on the matter, surely later on in his teens (towards the end  of Angela's Ashes) developed firm opinions on his parents, his environment,  etc.  This would have made the book more thought-provoking and less of a  &quot;childhood from hell&quot; documentary.Having said all this,  Angela's Ashes is a great achievement.
5 I absolutely loved the movie so I bought the book. The book is just as great! Don't expect to follow along with the movie, it doesn't. Since it is a memoir it's obvious the movie took some liberties in changing the order of things. Definitely a great read!
1 I'm guessing that this is the authors most famousbook.  I have read / tried to read a couple of his others.I made it through 140 pages and gave up finishing it.Way, way to sad of a story for me.
2 This is a story about a family (the Mc Courts) who live in extreme poverty due to the drunken father.  It starts out in New York then the family moves to Ireland with the donations of family members.  It tells of the family children dying as babies, the struggle for food, growing up Catholic, tha father spending what earnings he has made at the pub, the mother smoking cigarettes, which is money that.could be used to feed the kids.  The rough neighborhood.  It is told by Frank McCourt.  I am over half way through and it has been a struggle to get that far.  It is just the same o same o so far.  I am considering not finishing it.
5 I love family dramas and reading this book made me feel like one of the family. McCourt includes all the joys and miseries that afamily goes through, and I was right there along with them through it all.The location switches between the US and Ireland.Angela and Malachy first try to build their family, and finallywind up with four boys. Frank is the oldest, and soon it is timefor him to be the man of the family. The book follows as he looks for ways to bring home the bacon.I'm telling and recommending everyone toread this book. If you do, I'm quite positive that you won'tregret it. It might even make you feel lucky. I loved this bookand can't wait to read Frank McCourt's Tis. Anyway, I give thisbook my highest rating of 5 stars:)
2 I do not recommend this book to anyone.  It was a very sad novel full of despair, pain, sickness, and poverty.  I was tempted several times to stop reading the novel.  No great ending.
4 This memoir by Frank McCourt 's Irish childhood has been praised to the sky. Not only has it won major acclaim, but everyone I know has loved it.  I can see why.  It has great characters and tears at your heartstrings.  You'd have to be made of stone to not relate to the sad and impoverished  childhood of the author, and his matter-of-fact courage acceptance of  it.The one word that stands out when I think about this book is  &quot;food&quot;, or lack thereof.  It's surprising this man is still alive  and kicking at the age of 68 when I read about his childhood diet.  Mostly  small pieces of bread and tea and sugar water for babies' bottles.  He  yearns for an egg as if it is the most precious thing in the world.  And  when there is nothing else, he licks the grease off the newspapers that  have wrapped fish and chips.The family lives on the dole.  The father is  a drunk.  And yet I can't hate the father.  He comes across as a man with a  problem who loves his family even though every penny he has goes to  &quot;the drink&quot;.  There's lack of clothing, unheated living spaces,  cruel relatives, illness, and the death of little children.  All is sad.  And very moving,  And real.I think of my own childhood.  More food than  I could eat.  Electricity. Plumbing. A warm house.  A father who supported  the family.  A mother who wasn't worn out from hunger and overwork.  There's a lot to be thankful for.It's a good book.  I have to recommend  it.  And yet it took me over a week to read because every time I picked it  up I kept falling asleep.I read a lot of books.  Some of them pull me  right in and I can't put it down till I finish it.  That's rare though.  I'll abandon others after the first few pages.  Mostly I generally look  forward to reading what I've selected though.  I didn't look forward to  reading this and found it a chore to finish.Perhaps I had heard too many  rave reviews and expected more.  Maybe it is as simple as that.  There's a  certain thrill about discovering a book on my own which was missing.  However, it seems I'm the only one in the whole world who felt that way.  Do read it for yourself though.  It's certainly worthwhile.
5 I have read a lot of Maeve Binchy novels set in Ireland, and from that gained a love and respect for the it, but this is not Binchy's Ireland. Frank McCourts Ireland is one of poverty, disease, death, loss, alcoholism and stringent religious ruling.He begins the with "My parents should never have left New York" and I think that speaks volumes about the Ireland he endured. My Grandfather grew up during the same era in America and his family was also very poor, but next to the McCourts his family could have been the Vanderbilts. Not only is Franks family poor in the daily necessities - food, clothing, blankets, shoes, furniture, healthcare, etc. but there is no extended family support the grandmother, though she does help them monetarily a few times, is the proverbial "old bat" she is mean to the children, and terrible to her daughter. The Aunt is so bitter over her own infertility that she can't a find an ounce of love or compassion in heart for needy nephews, although her husband Uncle Pa Keating provides something of a male role model for young Frank and possibly the only compassionate member of his extended family. Inside Franks immediate family though you find a different story altogether, though you don't word for word read the brotherly love, you can tell by his actions how much he loves each brother, and his mother, what more his alcoholic father, who leaves them all to starve. Though Frank understands that his father is basically worthless, you also come to understand that he loves him, and in his own way he knows that though he is a hopeless drunk he loves them as well, from the way he never finishes a meal, leaving it for his children to eat, to the way that he tells each child stories meant only for them. Which is why I loved this book so much, he never tells you this is how I felt or what I saw, he tells you what as a child was perceived and lets the reader intuit the truth. I felt a bit abandoned in the end as I never learned what happened to the rest of the McCourt children, or Angela herself.In all this was a book that was rife with sorrow but also made me laugh, Franks follies are so typical of a boy coming of age, and he is so honest in his depiction of his humiliation. I think I would like to know Frank, he must be an interesting and wise individual.
5 Initially, I didn't want to read this book because i thought it would be depressing, but I wanted a memoir to listen to while I was exercising, so I got the audio book.  What a wonderful surprise! I loved the book; it seemed so sad, true and funny. I fell in love with Frank McCourt's voice; what a fabulous reader and storyteller!
4 everyone in the world is reviewing this book, but i'll get my two cents in as well. the author deserves the pulitzer prize just for coming through this. what i dont know is how he could re-enact it by writing down every  last detail. i would have been off to the nearest hypnotist to induce total  amnesia, and i'm not joking. there is certainly no question here about  authenticity or writing what you know about. the detail is so graphic it  made me sick more than once (why 4 stars). this is not a criticism; good  writing makes you care about what is happening. it was particularly  interesting to me as i had just finished a book on nonphysical abuse in  families; while this father did not beat up his wife or children, and  professed to be loving and caring, he most certainly abused them by keeping  control of the money, which he spent on drinking, allowing the family to  literally starve and go without the most basic necessities. i wonder if  this woman and her children thought of the father as abusive. in those days  probably not. the other thing worth mentioning is that it seemed strange to  me that people still find the U.S. such a paradise. although these people  were living in the most terrible poverty, that no one anywhere should have  to live in, there seemed to be no gangs, drugs, guns, or violent crime. in  the U.S. these things are not even limited to poor neighborhoods any  longer, and even in the 1930s, the author mentions crime and gangsters and  gun violence in America. i think this is an important book and you dont  have to be Irish, Catholic, or poor to relate to it. Although it wasn't  pretty, I'll be interested in the sequel.
5 While the situation that Frank McCourt grew up in is nothing to laugh about, he somehow makes you laugh.  By looking at poverty through a child's eyes one cannot help but laugh at the stories he tells.  The way he viewed the church and religion.  The movie does not do justice to the book at all.  It lost all the humor the book exuded.  Read it and laugh at what a child thinks of the world and the adults around him.
5 Storyline was interesting as I had never read anything that that part of the country. It was an eye opener on another place in time but the country has it beauty too I learned.
4 This is the autobiography of an American-born child of Irish immigrants who return to their roots and poverty in Ireland.  Young Frankie's father suffers from 'the drink,' while his mother suffers from depression and often neglects her children.  They are malnourished and live in squalid conditions.  Too proud to accept charity, Frankie's father drinks away what little money he manages to earn.Reading allows the young boy to escape to other worlds.  Through books, Frank develops his survival skills and a sense of hope for a better future.  This strengthens his determination to earn enough money to return to America one day.  McCourt's ability to illustrate the humor in his tragic childhood is very inspirational, albeit bittersweet.This book should be required reading for all teenagers.  The McCourt saga continues in the sequal 'Tis.
5 I love biographies, and I love history, and this book is both. Sad and funny it pulls you in right from the start.
5 I really can't say much more - it was just an outstanding story in every way.  The sadness of McCourt's childhood losses, deprivation and poverty took me to the depths of sympathetic grief, but then his perseverence and triumphs provided great inspiration.
2 This book is overrated and makes me wonder how McCourt got all those glowing reviews. My book club read this and most of us gave it less than one star. "Disappointing" was the word I heard the most as we discussed it. It was very hard to get through as far as I am concerned. The writing is not that great and it is boring and repetitive. All I could think was "When will this be over and when can I get through this so I can go on to a good book?" I got my copy from the library and couldn't get it back there fast enough.
4 Angela's Ashes is young Frank McCourt's childhood memories. Frank grows up in Ireland: a poor, cold, damp, ugly, depressed Ireland. The Irish blames a lot on the English, Frank's family is dysfunctional to say it the least, and life is not just tough - it is very tough. The lives of Frank and his family seems doomed from the beginningAnd still, Frank McCourt manages to write an inspiring, heartwarming, funny and touching story. But also a story that will make you very sad, a story which, at some points, seem utterly hopeless. Between the lines you are able to read the humor, the humor that must have kept Frank McCourt (and his family) alive, even during the worst times.All in all, you get the feeling that Frank and his family really want life, as ugly and meaningless as it sometimes seem.I liked this book a lot, and look forward to read 'Tis.
2 I read the book. It is moving and sad, but I don't understand how the author won a Pulitzer Prize for it. It was difficult to wade through the first four chapters. It got easier, but only because I made up what I thought the dialog meant. You can't look in the dictionary for the meaning of many words used in the text. If I were Irish, born in the 1930's, I could probably appreciate the book much more. It is a rambling account of a poor Irish family... very sad... but??
1 Honestly, I can not figure out how anyone can get through this miserable book.  The writing is one continuous run on sentence.  It simply rambles.  And it is the same story over and over again throughout the book.  Dad drinks, family has no money, and a child dies.  Turn page and repeat,repeat,repeat.  I read a ton of books, and can usually get through even the mediocre ones.  This one however will be a fail on my list.
5 "My father and mother should have stayed in New York where they met and married and where I was born (1930) . . . . When I look back on my childhood I wonder how I survived at all. It was, of course, a miserable childhood. . . Worse than the ordinary miserable childhood is the miserable Irish childhood, and worse yet is the miserable Irish Catholic childhood. People everywhere brag and whimper about the woes of their early years, but nothing can compare with the Irish version: the poverty; the shiftless loquacious alcoholic father; the pious defeated mother moaning by the fire; pompous priests; bullying schoolmasters; the English and the terrible things they did to us for eight hundred long years. Above all - we were wet."With a beginning like that, readers have no doubt that they are in for a story like never before. McCourt doesn't disappoint. Three of his six siblings die of malnutrition and disease, and his father never overcomes alcoholism - endlessly disappointing his family by failing to hold a job and drinking whatever money he had, even the welfare support. They live in a house infested with rats and bed bugs, and flooding in the winter. The home was also hindered by being adjacent to a outhouse shared with the neighborhood. Frank displays signs of aptitude noted by the library staff and one of his teachers, yet he's denied help from the Catholic church and alternates between relying on menial jobs (messenger, delivery-boy) and petty crime to feed his mother, himself, and family. Eventually they were evicted after Frank cut down some of the beams for firewood. Fortunately McCourt survived typhoid at age ten, managed to avoid following his father's drive to drink while yet acquiring his talent for storytelling, carried out his ambition to return to America, and didn't allow his childhood experiences to embitter himself or his writing."Angela's Ashes" earned the Pulitzer Prize (1997) for McCourt, and sold over 4 million copies.
4 I really enjoyed this book, it showed a lot about the poor of Ireland and the Irish men who all had one weakness the drink.  It shows a lot about the catholic church and it also make me understand why my relatives were thought of so badly when they came to America.  The Irish in the book were poor and relied on the government and the men leave their children and the mothers don't know what to do.  I saw my own family in this story, especially my Grandfather.  I saw the real Ireland not the land that is told about in fairy tales.  Ireland has come a long way and is so much better for it.  This is not putting down the Irish this is showing how the survived.  I am amazed that the Mc Court family did survive but I am so glad they did we had a wonderful story teller in Frank Mc Court.
5 Frank McCourt wrote a telling memoir of struggle, fear, rejection and salvation for a young Irish boy in the 1930's and 40's in Limerick, Ireland. The author was able to narrate from a child's point of view life as he knew it, and it added to the depth and emotion of the story. I am looking forward to reading his sequel 'Tis: A Memoir.
5 These harsh memoirs of a miserable Irish catholic childhood centre around a totally irresponsible alcoholic, but catholic, father. Bawling nationalist slogans, he prefers to be drowned in alcohol, rather than to buy food for his wife and many children: 'I didn't know how a man in his right mind can leave a wife and family to starve and shiver in a Limerick winter.'This suicidal behaviour even prevents his children to have a good education, which is a vital national power factor.But otherwise, he remains through and through a 'good' catholic (you may have sex, but it must be with profit).His belief is however heavily tainted by protestant fatalism: 'Dear God, this is what you want, isn't it? You want my son Eugene. You took his brother, Oliver. You took his sister, Margaret. Dear God above, I don't know why children have to die, but that is Your will.'The overall situation in Ireland before World War II was appalling: unemployment, hunger, poverty, alcoholism, illnesses, a high rate of child mortality, the hypocrisy of politicians, the rich and the clergy.Children fought among themselves for apple peels. Some were barefoot the whole year long.Catholic fundamentalism and sexual repression were more important than food, shelter and education.The school system for the poor was disastrous, run by brutal and stupid teachers, except one: 'this free independent Ireland that keeps a class system foisted on us by the English, that are throwing our talented children on the dungheap.'Only a few members of the lower classes saw through the rampant Pharisaism. One of them was an uncle of the author who teached him a fundamental lesson for confronting life: 'Make up your own mind.'Against all odds, the author took his fate in his own hands.This is a deeply moving and desperate book about the struggle for survival in a family living just above the level of total destitution.Not to be missed.
5 Read slowly or ration the daily page consumption so the book doesn't end so soon.  I purchased the book after hearing an NPR interview.  I loved hearing McCourt relate stories of his childhood and wanted to experience  more of his story-telling style.  Glad I did!  Angel on the 7th step is an  enduring image.  Having been in areas, years ago, similar to McCourt's  Limerick, I found the grimness and perserverence very believable.  His  stories caused me to share some childhood reminiscenses of my own(however  not so dour) with my children.  If a book can generate conversations  exploring one's personal history with those who can carry it forward - good  work!  I look forward to the next edition of the McCourt family.
5 I listened to the unabridged version of this book during commuting, and longer trips home, etc.  I think the added value of hearing Frank McCourt in his own voice is tremendous!  You get a true flavor from his impersonations of all the characters, you hear him sing the songs is drunk father sung to him, hear him chirp out the obedient calls to stearn teachers, etc.  You can tell from the many reviews here and elsewhere in the press that the book is a great one.  It truely brings home the horrors of growing up in extreme poverty, and all it brings, including sickness, ignorance, etc.  But growing up in it you have little perspective to judge how horrible your situation is, so McCourt doesn't whine about it, rather accounts for it in almost a matter-of-fact way.  The horrors speak for themselves - louder than any editorializing could ever do.
3 An English teacher wrote a book full of run on sentences, improper punctuation, and no real finish.While it's a gripping story, with some interesting history, it would be easier to read if we knew who was saying what, which is the point of quotation marks.  A Pulitzer Prize?  Really?  I would give a C- to the person who wrote this if he wrote it for a high school English class.
5 I laughed, cried, shook my head in dismay, and felt anger.  It is a memoir that touches all the emotions.  Just about the time I was feeling depressed by the poverty in McCort's life, I would come across a passage where I had to laugh out loud.  The story about his communion and throwing up God in his grandmother's back yard was so funny I had to read it to my husband.  By telling the story  through the eyes of a child, the reader catches a glimpse of the innocence of childhood. Sometimes that innocence is funny and some times poignant. While McCort's life was very difficult, there is always a determination to keep moving on , a determination not to give up. It is a wonderful read that I highly recommend.
5 I DID NOT WANT TO READ THIS BOOK AT ALL. I TOLD THE PERSON WHO WANTED ME TO READ IT, IT'S NOT MY STYLE. WELL ALL I CAN SAY IS THANKS BUDDY THIS BOOK WAS A CLASSIC. THIS IS ONE BOOK WHERE THOSE STUFFY BOOK PEOPLE ARE RIGHT. THE BOOK IS FANTASTIC. GIVE IT A TRY YOU WONT BE DISAPPOINTED.
5 I read this when it first came out, just recently bought it for my granddaughter.  It is sad, funny, happy, captivating
5 I thought the tone of this memoir was very real and proportionate to the experience of poverty and life with parents who are struggling.
5 I don't know why, but I really thought this was a great book.  It was sad, witty, easy to get through, fun at times, and also very depressing.  It tells a great story, and that story is made even better by the simple fact  that its true.  I don't know what else to say.  It's just a good book.  I  hope that the movie does the book justice.
4 I liked McCourt's book for its realism and humor. I have to admit, that I've never been to Ireland. But maybe because of that I hold a certain perspective of how paradiselike a life on the &quot;Green Island&quot; may be, of people mainly happy, drinking their guinnes making good music like the Corrs or Clannad. McCourt robs you any illusion of that kind, and  shows you a different life in poverty and misery, where even a supposed nationalistic heroism has no place as it doesn't provide any food or human housing either. Written from the perspective of a growing up teenager, who wonders about things happening around, the book never gets into severe a mood but always plays with a fine and sublime sense of humor. This may be nothing for those who cannot stand description of human misery less for those who cannot stand smiling at it. It may even disturbing for those who still want to hold an ideal picture of Ireland.  I rather smiled and was delighted.
5 I thoroughly enjoyed Angela's Ashes. Even though he had a terrible childhood Frank McCourt was able to keep his sense of humor and his humanity. I don't understand the reviews that said it was so sad they  couldn't finish it. How can it be more sad for the reader than the man that  wrote it. He was able to find reasons to laugh in every one of his awful  situations (expect maybe when his siblings died).I liked that he showed  us the hypocracy and hatefulness of the Catholic church and some of the  elders in his life. With all this negativity in his life it is amazing he  was able to keep his dreams alive.
5 Loved this book!  The voice and perspective were wonderful.  I could see every scene he wrote about . The ending left me wanting more!
5 For some reason, I resisted buying this book--it looked depressing.  However, when it finally came out in paperback, I decided to read it.  I couldn't put it down.  I hope everyone who reads it  understands how it  feels to be a child in want.  I couldn't put the book down--I alternated  between laughing and crying.
5 What can be said about this great novel that hasn't been said already?  Angela McCourt, a remarkable woman who lived a life few of us can even begin to imagine, and survived. She should serve as an inspiration to all no matter how dark and bleak the present and future present themselves.What was it that ran through her mind as she sat by the stove, smoking, drinking her tea, and staring at the ashes?Frank McCourt has written the most beautiful eulogy a son could ever write of his mother.
5 I've meant to read this book for years. Now, however, was the just-right time for it. I cried, despaired, railed in my head, laughed myself silly... In a voice of unflinching honesty and innocence, Frank McCourt details his life as the son of an alcoholic yet sometimes caring father from Northern Ireland and the woman he fell for fresh off the boat from Ireland, Angela Sheehan from Limerick in the south. McCourt takes the reader on a journey from death, poverty and pain in New York City to more of the same in Ireland and back again. Settled simply between the aching hunger, hacking coughs and continual dampness are many universal questions about life, both on earth and after. I am breathless having finished it.
4 Not many of us could survive the abject poverty and ignorance that Frank McCourt's autobiography reveals. This tale of his Irish, Catholic upbringing in the lanes of Limerick could be one of the most depressing  books you'll ever read. However, McCourt's strong character and innate  sense of survival come shining through with his ability to bring out the  humor in the most desperate of situations. The Irish, Catholics have often  had many misfortunes visited on them, but this book gives you a first  person account of the truth as seen through the eyes of a child. It is a  must read.
5 I have read many books, but I have never cried reading a book. This book is very sad and goes right to the heart. I could not put this book down. I wish that it never ended. I laughed at some moments and I cried. This has to be one of my favorite books. I dont have a top ten list yet but when I have one I know that this book will be in it. I recommand everyone reading this book.
5 What an incredible story! Frank McCourt makes you feel like you are actually there living these scenes of his childhood with him.
4 This is a unique and wonderfull book written in a distinctly McCourt style. The books paints a clear picture of a life you would never want to lead. It is written in a way that keeps you wanting more. Fortunately, his new book "Tis" picks up right where this on leaves off.
5 This is an amazing story told through the eyes of a child. Frank McCourt uses his humor very wisely to portray the struggle of an immigrant Irish family. Children tell the best stories and that is exactly what the author accomplished. A life story told from a young boys point of view. I could not put this book down.
1 I enjoyed every bit of this book.  You feel the bad times and I kept hoping things would get better.  It is both sad and funny.  I  want to read this author's other books now
5 This is a great book, brilliantly written!  If it hurts to hear the truth about poverty and famine, just imagine what it must have been like to LIVE it, as Frank McCourt &amp; his family did. He tells the tales of his tragic  childhood with candor, an eye for detail, humor &amp; yes, some hope too. I  bought this book and have read it through twice, then loaned it out to all  my friends who read books with an open mind. The world needed to hear this  memoir. I applaud Frank McCourt. He is in a class by himself as a writer!  Direct &amp; smart!
3 This book was a page-turner and kept me interested from beginning to end. Unfortunately, it did not live up to all the hype surrounding its publication. I was ultimately disappointed that the funny parts weren't  funnier and the sad parts sadder. In a nutshell, the characters in the  book: Drink, drink, have a baby, drink,have another baby, bury a baby,  drink, go to church,have a baby, drink, bury a baby, drink, drink, go to  church, and drink. They are desperately poor and feel very sentimental  about Ireland, so they also sing songs while drinking, having babies,  burying babies, or attending church. I love Irish writers; they are natural  story-tellers, and McCourt is no exception. And I guess it says something  that at least a few of the babies survived to become successful adults. But  the constant theme of wallowing in sorrow was pretty depressing.
5 This was, to my recollection, the first book I've ever read where the  minute I was finished with it, I wanted to start reading it all over again.  I didn't want to let little Frankie McCout go, I guess.This memoir of  poverty, alcoholism, disease and death would be compelling in the hands of  any decent writer, but in the hands of the sublimely talented Mr. McCourt,  it is a masterpiece.  That he can write so touchingly, forgivingly, and  hilariously of his miserable boyhood without a trace of self-pity is  astonishing.What I liked most was how he was able to get into the head  of the boy he was from ages 3-19 and relate exactly how it felt at each  stage.  It's almost as if he wrote this memoir right as he was living it --  the persepective was that seamless and true.I could talk about the  book's lyricism and beauty and strength of spirit,  but it comes down to  this: he brought these characters alive for me.  And I will never forget  the one-word final chapter that brought me to tears.  One word!  How does  he do it?  Long live Mr. McCourt, a new shining star among many fine Irish  writers.  I hope we have not heard the last of him.
5 this is a sensitive and often sad portrait of authors childhood and difficult life as a child with poverty. Filled with humorous moments however and detailed description of his life in Ireland well written and beautifully crafted one of a kind memoir
5 Reading this book was the first time I &quot;heard&quot; from a person first hand his experience of growing up in extreme poverty. During the  depression many people were poor and hungry - my own mother was lucky that  her family of 6 could kill a chicken to eat each Sunday. But Frank McCourt  describes poverty beyond imagination; unfortunately a painfully true story.  Day after day he and his family went without food, without heat, without  decent clothing, without a bathroom.It takes courage to write a memior  - one is under scrutiny not only for their writing style (McCourt's is  wonderful!) but also for their own actions through life.McCourt manages  to describe his life with dignity when it would seem there was none to be  found. When he steals food to survive, it is in desperation, and yet with  dignity, and we are convinced he did the right thing.We need to remember  that there is still too much poverty and hunger in the world. Too many  children go to bed hungry at night, and have nothing to eat when they wake  up.We need to remember this the next time our children cry because we  didn't buy them a new Pokemon toy....
5 My Irish ancestry, little as it is, was delighted by dialogue that had a familiar ring to it although it wasn't Ameerican-English.The story evoked empathy, tremendous humor and grinding pathos.  One minute I'd find myself laughing out loud, and next  I'd be struck dumb from the pain of an event.I'm sorry, in a way, that I hadn't read  Angela's Ashes before traveling through Ireland.
5 What a tragic story. This was so well written. I was really invested in this book. It is amazing what people can persevere and come through in life. This is a story about a family that was so dirt poor from Ireland that they were constantly hungry and scrounging for food. I highly recommend this read.
2 Yeah, I must admit that McCourt did have a hard life.  But naming the book after his mother kind of put her on a pedestal in my opinion, and that let me down as I read the book because she was not a great person.  And also, I  think that Frankie (the main character) did things that other boys his age  shouldn't be doing, and I didn't enjoy reading those parts, especially in  great detail.  I do not think that I would buy this book again.
5 This book is funny from beginning to end and makes you appreciate what you've got. I've never read of such destitute poverty before, but still laughed all the way through, which is a testament to McCourt's writing. His writing makes you see how ridiculous the adult world looks through the eyes of a child just trying to survive the his alcoholic father, Catholic school and the God-awful Irish weather!
5 In this time of plenty, it's difficult to imagine such poverty.  I discovered this Pulitzer Prize winning work AFTER reading &#34;Teacher Man&#34; - his third (and last) memoir.  What a fascinating rags to riches tale!  Should be a must-read for our overindulged, overweight, overstimulated youth.
3 While reading this book, I felt really bad for the kids in it.  I know the author won a Pulitzer for writing it, but it seemed so unfeeling, matter of fact, and out of touch about some very sensitive things.
5 Worthy of the Pulitzer, Frank McCourt's account of growing up poor in Ireland was a good read.  I wish my sons would read this book to realize how easy a life they have in America.
5 I had heard so many good things about this book that I was actually reluctant to read it. I thought that it could not measure up to the reviews- but it did. McCourt's prose reads like poetry. I encourage the reader to first listen to the CD of McCourt reading Angela's Ashes with his Irish tongue. Also, the movie is NOT a disappointment, and is a "must see" for those who loved the book.McCourt gives away the struggles he and his family went through for decades, but through it all the book remains full of love, wonder, trimuph of spirit and will, exuberance and faith. A five star book, sometimes too painful to get through, but written with a spirit like no other I have ever read.
5 I read this when it first came out. I was skeptical at first because it sounded so depressing. But when I got started, I was fascinated by this boy's perspective on life. (The author narrates the book through the eyes of a youngster) This book did bring tears to my eyes from time to time...BUT...it also made me laugh out loud several times too. It's an insightful memior. It shows us that a person's life can be seriously cruel, but that's no reason to not look to the future. Take what life gives you, and turn it into something useful.
5 Angela's Ashes is a memoir which tells of Frank McCourt, born in Brooklyn  during the Depression to recent Irish immigrants who search for a new life  in the States. A child's survival of poverty and hardship in a brave new  country makes for a winning account which comes alive under audio  treatment, narrated by the author.
5 This is a remarkable book.  Funny in many ways and yet one has a constant gut wrenching feeling. McCourt's tale of a childhood in misery is often revolting.  There is never a feeling of normalcy as you sense there is yet  some other forthcoming tragedy. The cast of characters is special in  itself. Mother, father, brothers, friends, bullies, school teachers,  religious and irreverents. They are all there and not one bores you.  Through McCourt's eyes we see a careful portrait of an Irish town and its  institutions.  The church, the taverns, the poor and the less poor, the  protestants, the benefactors, the food. Yes, the food.  This is a tale of  survival, of perseverance told with grand humor.  A rare read.
5 Written with verve and plenty of style, plus inundated with a lot of dark humour. This is a modern Dickens-like autobiography of poverty first in New York and then in Ireland. This is no sociological study and there is little self-pathos - thankfully. Much of their poverty would have been alleviated if their father was not drowning in pubs.  If there is anyone despicable in this story it is Frank's father - a man who father's children with no moral rectitude for their upbringing. But the remainder of the family battle onward and not necessarily upward - at the end the author is back in New York with a new life to begin.All the characters are colourfully depicted. The poverty, more so at the beginning, is rather unrelenting. When the author enters school his world begins to diversify. Some of the anecdotes (particularly the sexual ones) do seem apocryphal.In Ireland, as one character narrates, the Irish dancing style is akin to having a `pole up your arse'. This restrictive dancing becomes a metaphor for the country which is plagued by tribalism and Catholic indoctrination. Fortunately the author sees beyond this limited horizon and we have a magnificent story.
4 This piece of literature was truly amazing. It is told without hiding anything, revealing startling demons about McCourt's past. However, he tells the book with a remarkable sense of optimism which makes it easier to  get through and hard to put down.
5 *My son was told to purchase this for his summer reading for school) -
5 This is one of my all-time favorite novels.  I had my English Honors class read it for their summer reading assignment and they absolutely LOVED it.  Usually the kids don't do their summer reading, but they devoured this book.  The story is such a gutwrenching sad one, but it was Frank's reality growing up.  The conditions in which he lived were unthinkable, and he does such a wonderful job of detailing them for the reader.  You feel so attached to Frankie and his siblings, and you really develop emotions for his mother and his drunk of a father.  It really makes you just want to take this family in and care for them.  I recommend this book to anyone...it is truly a magnificent piece of literature.
5 this was the best memoir I ever read. Period.
1 Now the author of this book has had his, let's leave it at that.A hollow echo of Irish life that harkens back more to Darby O Gill and the Little People than to anything real. The dialog is hollow and inane, the story line serves up one cliched scene after another. A thorough waste of time. No stars, not even a barren asteroid.
5 &#8220;It was of course a miserable childhood; the happy childhood is hardly worth your while.&#8221; This is one of my personal favorites. To tell a story of you alcoholic father, and emotionally distraught mother, with the dry humor and raw truth Mr. McCourt has, takes a special talent. A moving account of life on the other side of the tracks in Ireland in the 30's and 40's, that everyone should get lost in.
5 I am particularly impressed by the innocence and true rendition of his memories as a child.  I recognize a great amount of similarities in details from my own childhood, which has been clouded and judged by the victimhood-labels I have acquired as an adult.  Frank McCourt has inspired me to reevaluate my memories and remember them as I experienced them at each stage of my childhood.  This book makes it easy for 'outsiders' to appreciate the 'less fortunate' (to say the least) histories of mankind, whithout being dragged into a searing, guilt-inflicting journey.  The humor, and the honest, endearing descriptions of his experiences at the different stages of his childhood, make this book a pearl.
5 I was so taken by this book I could not put it down....I managed to whip through it in two days and was sorry when it ended.  My big question now is:  WHAT HAPPENED AFTER FRANK GOT TO NEW YORK....  when did the rest of his brothers and his mother come over....where did his father end up?  What about the other relatives....  I loved this story and was constantly recharged as he grew up and experienced the poverty and hunger associated with the &quot;lower class&quot;.  Actually, we all know that class has nothing to do with anything...people should take care of people, like Frank did with the sick people he delivered telegrams to....one good turn deserves another...and I want to know how he became the wonderful writer he is today.
5 What an eye opener, a page turner.  Leads you right into his next book: 'Tis.
4 I thought this was going to be a good read after all it won the Pulitzer Prize and every other person on the underground has been reading it.  Don't get me wrong it was a good read, but what I didn't know was it would ruin my diet. I developed a strange craving for mashed potato and soft-boiled eggs, which are usually two of my least favourite foods. But did it make me want to revert to Catholicism? With all those Priests slamming doors - not a chance! I'll carry on practicing my Pagan beliefs and wish Frank McCourt well-healed shoes and all the boiled eggs and mashed potatoes he can eat.
5 The author recalls his boyhood of poverty in New York and Ireland. Having suffered through an alcoholic father, frequent moves, siblings' deaths, illness, and near-starvation, McCourt conveys the waeriness that a family  in such a desperate situation often feels.  He tells his family's story  with love, humor, and a child's sense of wonder.  Even though the narrative  is sad, it doesn't evoke pity or tears.  It's an uplifting story told with  great warmth.  What does come through, however, is a pervasive sense of  McCourt's shame and the insensitivity of more fortunate people to those  less fortunate.
5 This story was both terribly sad and remarkably funny at the same time. Frank McCourt's ability to combine the cruel, ignorant, and uneducated hardships of people with a diversely humorous approach is reminiscent of the genius of Joseph Heller's "Catch 22". The irony and comedic quality in the way he'd reuse phrases, or quotes, in both different and relative situations, as to repeat the humor, reminded me of Kurt Vonnegut's  "Breakfast of Champions".Unfortunately, it's the story of children forced to suffer hardships because of the irresponsible and dysfunctional actions of their parents. As amusing and dramatic as the story is, I hope those of non-Irish decent won't generalize the actions of the Irish because of the old-fashioned ignorance displayed in this book. They were definitely two pathetically negligent individuals, easily seen as more of an insult to the Irish than anything typical.The five stars I gave the story were for its comedic and witty value, for style and prose as well. It's an interesting story, even though the two primary adult characters were pitifully weak individuals.
3 This book hurt my heart...Frankie McCourt grew up in a much different time than we live in here in the Western world.  &#34;Like&#34; is the wrong word, but fulfilling, in that we &#34;feel&#34; the pains of the mother who lost children, those who were left behind, and those who picked up the pieces.It's a book worth your time.
5 I know this is Frank McCourt's first book, but I read Teacher Man first.  As a teacher, I enjoyed it immensely.  I had to learn more about Mr. McCourt.  This book was heartbreaking, in the fact that people actually lived in such poverty.  It is eye opening, and makes one realize how precious life is.
4 This is one heart wrenching story. Told mostly in the first person, little Frank mcCourt is talking to you, and when you listen (whether you like it or not, you listen), you get transported to New York with him and then to Ireland. He truly is a gifted story teller, his simple words paint a picture of his life and you feel the pain and hunger he talks about. Makes you want to hug that little boy, give him and his family food and tell him everything's going to be allright. He also surprises you with humor when you least expect it, and you find yourself laughing out loud over his escapades.Starting in New York, you meet Frank, aged 4, his brother Malachy, 3, the twins, 1. His alcoholic father can't seem to keep a job and when he does, he spends most of the money drinking in pubs, whilst his children are left starving and cold. The family moves to Limmirck, Ireland, and the father keeps his old ways - you know the father means well, Frank knows it and he loves him despite the circumstances they're in, but you can't forgive him for what he's doing to his family. Frank takes you with him as he grows up, you take in the surroundings, the utter hunger they feel, the house the live in, his mother's grief, and the sole lavotary in the lane which is right outside their kitchen window.For the longest time after finishing the book, I'd still hear the little boy talking in my head. His humor, and way with words stay with you long, and you'll forever see Limirick as the city he saw, and experienced.
2 I'm sorry. I was geared up to read a heartwarming story and this just didn't have it. Too much space was taken with thing's that I dont' feel needed to be added to the story. I had a rough time finishing it but I did. Don't feel I'd buy another book by this author.
5 Everytime I think of this book, I actually get the chillsbecause I loved it so much. McCourt's descriptions of not onlyLimerick but also of Brooklyn were wonderful.  While I don't usually like humor in my books, I loved McCourt's humorous writing style.  No one tells a story like Frank McCourt.  It's so from the heart.  Now the fact that I'm part Irish, lived in Brooklyn and am Catholic probably added to my enjoyment of this book.  I do know that everyone I've recommended it to has loved it as much as I did.  END
4 It was an interesting book on the living conditions in Ireland back in World War II time and the hardships the people endured.
5 Considering that I am the appreciative reader of more than my fair share of memoirs of difficult childhoods and adolescence, I wonder often what separates a book like this that wins the Pulitzer Prize from other similar memoirs that are published by appreciative publishers and still others that are self-published. What separates this book from its peers in a very crowded market that would make it critically praised is a certain disdain for organized religion, a very polished literary style, a focus on showing rather than telling how hard life was for him (more on this in a little bit), along with a certain crudity in dealing with language as well as questions of the author&#8217;s furtive teenage sexuality as well as the depravity that was going on around him.The author states at the outset of his book that there are few childhoods that are as rough as a bad Irish childhood, and this book is a deeply grim tale that is told vividly and colorfully about many ways a childhood can go wrong, when you have a lot of siblings that die because of poverty-related problems, when your father is a bit of an outcast as a Northern Irish man living mostly in Southern Ireland, even if he was not a hopeless drunk who let his family nearly starve because of his love of the bottle and where your mother begs and even sleeps around to survive and is basically helpless because of deep psychological problems related to her own childhood problems. When you have a divided family, a childhood of extreme privation that involved petty theft on a frequent scale and the constant shame of begging and grinding poverty, when the desire for education as a way of advancement is frustrated by class concerns and monetary concerns. This book, like many others, is made more bearable by the fact that we know the author was a success in leaving the morbid depression of his parents&#8217; homeland and moving back to the United States, as knowing the ending makes the heartbreaking material of this book somewhat more manageable.There are a lot of elements in this story I can relate to, a bit painfully, although in some ways this author had a more difficult childhood than mine (and that is no easy task!). The author talks about his fondness for poetry and Shakespeare learned from early shy flirtations and furtive relationships with doomed girls. If one does not know that the author himself had three marriages before his death, one would be hard-pressed to see in the childhood and family background of the author as providing any sort of experience in faithfulness and uxorious devotion. It is not necessary to believe that every single story in here is entirely accurate&#8211;it is understandable that family members would not necessarily want to be remembered the way they are recounted here, and that a storyteller as creative and compelling as McCourt would exaggerate the squalor of his youth a little. Nevertheless, the truth must have been bad enough, and told well enough to make this memoir well worth reading whether one can relate to the victim mentality and massive hypocrisy of the Ireland symbolized here or not.
1 I have never read anything with  so much sadness for one family. Frank was incredible resourceful youngster having to provide as his father neglected his responsibility.  It was very disturbing to me , I could not recommend it to anyone, even if May have been well written!
4 There's not much more I can say that hasn't already been said.  A beautifully written memoir.  I actually decided to read this book prior to watching the movie, and this has now been added to my "the book was better" list.
4 While this book details the Ireland we are all familiar with...poverty, war, alcohol...Frank McCourt defines every humorous memory which brightens the scene. I admit I wasn't drawn to this book like some good stories. It began very slowly and every member of his family seemed to be dying left and right. However, once I got to the final 150 pages (Frank's teen years), I couldn't put it down.It is disturbing how much control religion has over one's mind; however, seen through the eyes of a child it is entertaining.Don't expect a close-knit family when you sit down to read this. This is not a family that sticks together. Aside from his father, McCourt's aunt and grandmother are &quot;tight&quot; even when they have a little to spare. However, those in the lane who have less always seem to come through for others in the town which is enlightening.I am still debating whether I want to read the sequel, 'Tis.
5 Loved it. Definite thumbs up. Got through it in two days as could not put it down. There is that enough words?
4 Almost everyone who's read Angela's Ashes praises it as one of the best autobiographies/memoirs ever - a statement I would hesitate to agree with. Dont get me wrong: I do think it's a very good book. The best thing about Angel's Ashes is its lack of sorrowfulness - you dont see an author sobbing over a painful childhood and asking for your sympathy. Instead it's treated with great humor (this book does have some of the funniest passages you'd read in a serious autobiographies) and a lack of egoism. The narrator describes things for what they are and show a geniune interests in the psychologies of others. Even when it comes to an unsympathetic character, the protrait is drawn with great understanding and warmth. The oceanic existence of the child is particularly well-done, with great immediacy, that we get drawn into his universe in great sympathy. These are among the greatest achievements an autobiographer can have.The only thing I am uncomfortable with is the ending. It's a very deliberate construction of McCourt 'giving up' Ireland (symbolized by the Priest) for U.S. and its values (think of the woman who grabs him - and the affirmative answer he gives to the question: isn't America wonderful?). The book ends well - but I can't get rid of the feeling that it is a bit too 'market-oriented', which undermines the previous narrative a little bit when you go back to read it again.
1 I picked up this book with great expextations and was quickly let down. This is a is not only depressing, but it left a bad taste in my mouth. I truly felt bad for his family, but I don't know how anyone could give this a good review...
5 Angela's ashes was the book that got me into reading. Sad, funny, hopeful - all at the same time. The day I bought the book, I ended up spending the whole night in my college dorm and finished it in one sitting - something I never thought I'd do prior. Reading Angela's Ashes, like all his other books is an experience - like having an intimate chat with a long lost friend. It's human, it's real, it's raw - and it's the standard with which I continue to judge other books by.Thanks for the stories Frank - you will be terribly missed and always remembered.
5 This book is so compelling and so excellently read that you are sad when it is over. It is read by the author and he truly transports you to a different time.  No other audio books even come close to how wonderful this one is. McCourt is mischievous, lively, wicked, kind and human.
4 This is such a great book! I loved it! It is very sad and hard to believe that it really happened to those poor kids. But I couldn't even put it down. At the end of the book I was so upset that it didn't "end." I guess I should have known there was a sequel.
5 One might question the sanity of a person who could laugh at the painful impoverishment depicted in Angela's Ashes, but I shamelessly laughed out loud many times.McCourt's memoir is so cleverly written that good readers are sure to see his bittersweet tongue in his cheek as he uses humor to recover from a woeful childhood.  I think the moral of the story is that if he can survive the Irish perdition, there is much hope for all of us.WARNING: the movie does little justice to this fine work by McCourt.
5 The fact that I am the seventeen-hundred-and-forty-eighth person to review this novel probably says it all. Really racey and not for the faint-hearted: take a really deep breath before you start reading, it will have to last until the final page.
4 Okay how does  he really remember all this stuff as a little kid? But the message hits home.  It's amazing to see how some kids survive what we adults put them through. I can't imagine trying to grow up in the way he did. However the story started to get a little long and repetitive for me. Still an interesting read  however
5 In this book, Frank McCourt breathes humor and a sense of hope into the story he tells of the haplessness of poor people's lives in the Irish republic, in the 1930s and 1940s. His story is told through his own experiences and he does not skimp on descriptions of how life was for for poor Roman Catholics that lacked economic opportunity; were mired in religious biggotry, superstition, and hatred of England; in poor-quality housing, often with insecure occupancy right; and often with tenuous access to secure sources of nutrition. Only McCourt's inherent good humor made this story enjoyable to read.
5 I could listen to Frank McCourt's lyrical voice all day long. His stories are wonderful, and his voice is the perfect accompaniment for them. I encourage everyone who loves to read to experience the voice of the author  as well. Frank McCourt is a great place to start. &quot;Angela's  Ashes&quot; is still one of the greatest books I've listened to (or read).  The cost of the unabridged tapes is worth it!
5 Don't let the title fool you. This is no chick book. It's the gritty biographical story of a boy growing up in the desparately poor conditions of WWII Ireland. The writing style is unsual, but the story is compelling. This is real history, not fiction. I will admit the title put me off from reading for years, but a recent NPR review at the time of the author's death changed my mind. I'm glad it did. I'll never see Ireland (or England) in quite the same way again.
4 Many times as I was reading this book, I wanted to put it down.  Angela's Ashes is not a happy story.  In fact, the abject poverty, squalor, desperation and death make it downright depressing.  But it is masterfully told.  McCourt's first person writing style is real, genuine and so you feel along with the protagonist:  abandonment, disappointment, shame, grief, anger, betrayal but also hope and joy and pleasure in the simplest things.  The turning point is when Frank finally decides to forget about his father, a drunk who abandons his family, and become a man.  The story becomes more poignant as we watch Frank struggle to transform himself. As the story ends, though, the reader gets a sense that life is going to be better (the protagonist finally makes it back to America after scrimping and scrounging and working his "arse" off to pay the fare.  He feels in America he'll be able to do great things and the reader hopes so much that "'tis".*
5 In this book none of the characters have quoted dialogue. I thought this would make the story boring, maybe a little dry. I was wrong. Mr. McCourt's tragic tale is compelling and heartbreaking. He never gives up, through it all he keeps on going.It's a good story and an interesting look into history.
5 This was one of the books I knew I needed to read and never got to with so many good books out there. I finally got to it and am glad I did. I learned a lot about history and the amazing spirit of the Irish.
4 This is a funny, wonderful memoir of growing up poor in Ireland. Frank relays the feeling of being so poor that they did not even seem to realize you could live any other way.
2 Definitely overrated. I admit that it is readable,  but thae fact that this book was such a success in America is more indicative of Ireland's changing image in the States than of the book's quality. Ireland used to be  portrayed in a sugar-sentimental way in Hollywood movies; now the tide has  turned, and Ireland is supposed to be portrayed in a vicious, negativist  way. I do not question Mr McCourt's right to dislike Ireland, his emotions  are genuine and authentic. However, his unashamed admiration for America,  although probably an authentic description of the postcolonial Irish mind  in his youth, is not tempered by any kind of distance or irony, and makes  the end of the book look like a kind of American egoist-nationalist crank  pamphlet: Soviet-style disgusting propaganda, no literature. The  love-affair with the dying girl smacks more of errand-boy folklore than  experience, and as a pornographic story motif it is a well-worn  clich&eacute;.It should not be inferred that this kind of harshly critical view  of Irish society is something new in literature about Ireland. This has  been done before, in Ireland, and in the Irish language (Breand&aacute;n &Oacute;  hEithir's Lig Sinn i gCath&uacute;, and P&aacute;draig Ua Maoileoin's novels, for  instance).
5 The Luck o' the Irish Isn't All Good at least not for the poor of Limerick living in the lanes. This is an amazing story of a poor family and the trials and travails of a boy growing up on the streets of Limerick. The story is riveting and kept me near tears at times and in stitches at others. I recommend this book whether you are Irish born or just Irish at heart.
5 Frank McCourt has written an immigrant's tale for the new generation.  American by birth, moved back to Ireland when he was a small boy.  This is his story from when he was young until he moves back to America in his twenties.  This autobiography is both hysterically funny with tales of his communion to crushingly sad with the death of siblings due to poor health and poverty.  McCourt writes about his father and the problems he has with alcohol.  He also writes about his unloving aunt who also buys his first true suit for work.  For me, the most poingment moment of the book is when he comes home drunk the first time and his mother has to deal with him.  This book is a true triumph because even with crushing poverty, McCourt writes about good times and friends growing up.  This book is well worth the time and once you start, you can't put it down again.
5 I know this book has been out for a number of years, but I have not read it until recently.  Mr. McCourt made his Ireland come alive.  I am looking forward to reading his other books.
5 I read this book on a plane headed to Los Angeles and simply could not put it down! I was completely engrossed from the moment I began reading it until the moment I finished. This book gave me a lot to think about. The mere openness of Mr. McCourt concerning his life was amazing. I was often times livid about the way in which he had to go about his life, and felt the pain of his mother who in her own way remained strong and hopeful during his father's constant battle to find stable employment.His father was a very interesting man. I believe that he was suffering from a broken-heart due to the loss of his daughter andtwin sons. I believe the elder McCourt could have been an author or story-teller within his own right. I feel that such things can be a given and passed down from generation to generation. I think that this indeed was an interesting point that Mr. McCourt made in his movie and book that his father was always telling him stories in which apparently he remembered and retained.It is hard to imagine how one could have survived such an upbringing; nevertheless this book is a perfect example how Mr. McCourt was ever so eloquent in his one dream of coming to America.  I was touched by his willingness on several occassions in which even as a child he worked and tried to take on the responsibilities of caring for his family. I thought that was beautiful when he became in the very words of his father when he left for London, "the man of the house."Mr. McCourt honesty and straight-forwardness about the events that occurred in his life makes him one the most beautiful authors that I know. Honesty within itself is a beautiful thing. The freedom to write an honest piece of work is far more intriguing.I love this book it touched my life. I have read this book more than once, and somehow when I want to place myself within a situation of all odds I read this . . . And then I am reminded of the dream of Mr. Frank McCourt and I am totally convinced that anything is possible within my life if only I just BELIEVE!I highly recommend this book to all . . . it is one excellent read!
4 Enjoyed this book,  so sad to read of the way it was for his family, being so poor.  Sure made him tough and gave him character though.
4 I found this to be a gripping story located in a part of the world I knew little about even though 1/8 of my ancestors hailed from Ireland -- north, I think.  The poverty depicted in this book is mind boggling.  I have ministered to the poor in South America for 50 years, but I have never seen anything like this.  I believe the book to be true and biographical.  I give it 4 stars because it is a well-written, eye opening, gripping tale, but I took off one star because the ending is so horrible.  Frank, couldn't you have told us a little of your life in America after your first depressing night in your native land?  Did you ever help any of your relatives to get to the USA?  I see that you had a prosperous life with a marriage and children and grandchildren -- we would like to have heard something of this.
5 Angela's Ashes is one of my favorite books of all times. The story of the family as they lived in the slums of Ireland is both heartbreaking and heartwarming.  Death, desertion and the resolve to leave Ireland and go back to America makes this a classic story. Loved this book!
5 absolutely great condition and the book itself's contents, all I can really say is what a wonderful writer. I had much the same experience with my father so I could relate a lot.
3 I simply did not identify with the style that Frank McCourt wrote this book.  I found myself skipping pages to get to better parts.  Perhaps it was what was happening in my life at the time, therefore I could not allow  myself to get swept up in it.Though I do want to say that my Mum,  Brother and friend all thoroughly enjoyed it and as my Mum said, &quot;when  he ran down the street I was running with him&quot;.  She found it totally  unputdownable.I did get from it though the way life was back then and  will definitely go see the film.I think this is the type of book YOU  must make up your own mind to read.  Most people I know have loved this.
4 Amazing what the human spirit can endure.  McCourt has a way of writing that makes the reader feel that he/she knows the McCourt family personally. I am anxious to read &#34; 'Tis&#34; to find out how Frank's life plays out in America.
5 I am re-reading this extraordinary book in anticipation of McCourt's forthcoming new book--the last in the trilogy that began with Angela's Ashes. The author's prose is simply stunning. Any writer or student of writing cannot help but be awed by the manner in which Mr. McCourt is able to express his thoughts so beautifully. As most people know, the story is about his youth in Ireland. And yet, it has an appeal to everybody, regardless of culture or background. This is a book I will keep in my library and never get rid of.
3 As is often the case, the book is less consequential than the public reaction to it.  The latter is far more instructive than the former will ever be.
5 Frank McCourt accomplishes the rare feat of turning out a memoir that is both incredilby moving as well as entertaining.  The vivid images portrayed by McCourt as he recounts his childhood in Limerick will make you seem like you are living the experiences yourself.  You see the landscape, smell the smells, feel the air, hear the sounds.  You will find yourself laughing out loud one minute and reaching for a Kleenex to wipe your tears the next.  McCourt is a true talent.
5 although i question the total recall of a 3 year old; frank mccourt's memoir is one of the best reads i've had in a long time.  his writing style is through a child's mind and very captivating.  unbearable misery and  uncontollable laughter throughout.  an emotional rollercoaster.  however i  believe mccourt's account is one of a very very small percentage of people  in ireland in the 30s &amp; should not been viewed as a statement of  ireland or the irish on the whole.  but they're his memories and he tells  them with  cathartic genius.
5 Okay, you know from the numerous reviews and comments that this is an autobiographical tale about a boy, born of Irish parents in America, yet reared (if it can be called that) in Ireland.  There is much in this book  that will sadden and anger you.  In fact, you mightn't think that a story  about a boy and his family living in a state of squalor in the generally  cheerless environment of wet and gloomy Limerick would be much fun to read  about, or to laugh about for that matter.  But the author makes it not only  readable but engaging and entertaining, with healthy portions of humor,  sardonic, irreverent or otherwise, laced throughout.  That Frank McCourt  can actually make the reader chuckle, considering the bleak subject matter  is remarkable, but also remarkable is the story itself, one that almost  screams to be made into a movie.  Of course it has but I haven't seen it  and, to be truthful, I'm kind of scared to;  judging from some of the  reviews I've read, I'm afraid it may spoil the book.
3 I haven't being looking forward to reviewing this book. I honestly don't know what to give it. I feel almost guilty for giving it 3 stars. Nothing about this book really stands out to me. I don't understand Irish traditions and customs, nor do I really understand War torn Europe during World War II. And this books doesn't really help with any of that. I keep waiting for someone to admit this is a exaggerated fabrication of what life was really like. I have to admit every time the drunken father shows up I'm reminded of an episode of Family Guy. Plus, I'm curious were did the father go? Am I suppose to feel in awe of this young boy who made something of himself by saving money stolen from an elderly women? Does it make his story more interesting than those who weren't able to escape poverty? I just don't know.... I do want to know what happened when he reached America, but I'm not sure I will read the next one.
2 I just started reading this book and don't yet know if I will finish it. I hate the wrting style and it is hard to get interested, so far.If it doesn 't get better soon,  I won 't finish it.
5 I have friends who found it impossible to finish Angela's Ashes because they found it relentlessly depressing with its heavy themes of aching poverty, absent drunken loving father and long-suffering mother - classic themes, it seems, in Irish literature.But in spite of the truth of those parts of the story, it's impossible to finish this book without feeling a sense of triumph for the human spirit, even when surrounded by the realities of McCourt's Irish childhood and young adolescence.It works, I think, because he writes the entire book in the child's voice - not an easy task to pull off, but he succeeded. And a child, of course, doesn't have much against which to hold up his own life; it's all he knows. So McCourt never comes across as sounding whiney, bitter, jealous, or put-upon.Scene after hilarious scene is interspersed with real heartbreaking and harrowing and demeaning eqisodes, but the overall feeling I was left with was joy.
5 Through the eyes of a child, gives an innocent prospective unreachable any other way. Laugh and cry simultaneously? Oh, you will.  The uniquely fresh style McCourt exhibits is a delight.  Triumph over adversity has never been  said more eloquently, more honestly. Don't miss this gem!
5 I could not believe how fast I received this book.  Great Seller and good book.  Thank you
1 My sister gave me a copy of this book. I had heard about it from her, and looked forward to reading it.I felt sadness for little Frankie, anger for his father who was a slave to alcohol, amazement at his mother for laying it bed or staring into the ashes while her children went neglected.Mr. McCourt died just a short time back. God rest his soul. But one recurrent thought I had while reading was "How can he remember so many minute details from so long ago?"All in all, the story was interesting at first, but became very repetitive after a while. I found myself thinking something GOOD was bound to happen to redeem the story, but it never did. The whole book could of been summed up by saying, "we lived in squalor with stinking chamberpots, Dad drank the dole money instead of buying food, my sister died, my brother died, and then things got worse."The worst part of the whole book for me: Here is this little boy, you feel sad for him, you want things to get better for him, and then toward the end of the book he becomes totally self absorbed, steals, commits adultery with a girl who is dying of TB, and "interferes with himself" (ahem) all over the countryside.
4 Surprisingly straightforward writing style takes you into this complex view of Irish caricatures and into the author's own maturation. Extremely sad events but you frequently will be laughing out loud during many a  heartbreaking episode. Although written with raw honesty, the narrator  (McCourt) is the only character I really cared for. You see his warts and  others, but end up being sympathetic to only his--but powerfully  sympathetic. Many chilling, dramatic images painted throughout the narrated  events--some wonderful language. Although very different from Joyce, I  would consider this style of stream-of-consciousness or phenomenological  writing to be more true to the inner experience than Joyce. Maybe you will  see this when you read it. Overall, amazing in the way that it gives you  insight into &quot;the human experience.&quot; I think this eventually may  be a classic in this category.
1 pure drudgery, from page one to page 362.This book left me feeling disgusted to even be a part of the human race if this is what we are capable of.
4 This read was incredibly well written and awfully descriptive of the degenerative life this little boy experienced. His account of his childhood was raw. Sometimes an author can write in such a way to make us all blush of how the human condition can become.
5 Mr. McCourt describes his life in Limerick, Ireland. WOW! What a book. His story is incredible and really demonstrates the true greatness of the human spirit. A MUST READ!
4 Who says publishers are not interested in your life. Frank McCourt proves otherwise. The book is very informative about the life in Irland in the age described by the author. The language is simple, including understandable accent. The story is very touching and realistic though sometimes I got the impression author is taking sadistic pleasure in so thoroughly describing painful experiences.If one is successful in life past painful memories are not painful in present but they give a triumphant feeling having conquered difficulties in life. I am sure Frank McCourt is enjoying his success. The presentation of dialogues has been done in a very peculiar fashion - an unorthodox way for sure. I also enjoyed a comic twist given to otherwise sad situations - kept me reading, otherwise I would not have continued. I am looking forward to reading 'Its.'
5 This book is simply incredible and the inclusion of the patriotic and doleful poems of the Irish make it simply the best and stand out from the rest. Frank Mc Court has retold the story in a perspective of a child and I wonder how could he retell each and everything so clearly and touchingly.... so hands up for him... Mc Court is one of the greatest Irish writer ever.... This book has broken my heart, made me laugh, brought tears in my eyes and has made me obsessed with Little Frankie and his sore eyes....I never wanted to finish Angela's Ashes and wish I could continue reading it forever and ever.... If you are keen about Frankie's life then Tis' is a must read book...I wish I could invite Frankie during Christmas so that he didnt have to eat the pig's head....
5 Angela's AshesWhat more is there to say about this book that hasn't already been said?  This is what 5 star books are all about. No wonder it won the Pulitzer Prize.Young Frankie McCourt is the poorest of the poor, growing up in Ireland during the 1940's... The book tells his experiences of his incredibly hard life, from his neglectful father, his dying siblings, the hunger and the rain, and most of all the suffering of his mother Angela...I am not going to get into details, but rest assured this book has so many funny points and situations that it more than compensates for the abundance of tragedy and creates a magical balance of literature.Anyone who loves to read must read this book. There are no exceptions - to skip this book means to skip an important lesson in life.Relic113
5 This was a moving story line that carried the book to a five stars rating.  You'll be dragged through the hopes, dreams, and broken promises at the bottom of every empty bottle in this sad tale.
