5 I almost didn't buy this book because of the negative reviews - I am SO glad I decided to see for myself!  This book kept my interest from the first page until it ended.  Yes, I was a little disappointed how it ended - but that's not a bad thing.  Eagerly anticipating the next book!
2 This series started out great, then the second book was ok, the third and fourth were pretty bad. This one is middling good. It started out as if it were on fire, then the end totally bit. Once again, characters who are good and honorable and likeable - end up dead. What is Martin's problem? Is he clinically depressed? People have called him the American Tolkien - hah. No way. He doesn't have half the talent. It seems as if he's making this up as he goes along. Everytime he seems to have written himself into a corner, he pulls some rabbit out of his hat and goes off in another silly direction. I may not even read the rest of the series until it's in the Kindle bargain bin. I'm really tired of the endless ways he finds to just drag things out. It snows, so everyone stops. We sail from here to there. Even Tyrion is starting to be a boring character. Unlike the Lord of the Rings, which this can't even hold a remote candle to, I get no sense of history from this. He throws a bunch of names about, events about, how about a LOTR like timeline in the back of the book, rather than those endlessly dull repeats of the houses. Does anyone really not know who Robert Strong is? I'm surprised he even killed of Tywin Lannister, since he seems to hold such love for the evil characters. Now what he does at the wall, and leave us hanging... well, I'm fed up with this crap. It took him six years to write this? I think he has a dart board in his office and he hits it and says "Ok, that'll happen." This started with such promise, and it's going down hill so fast. The sad thing is for at least half the book, it was far better than 3 and 4, the ended just like them. Also, little tidbits like Brienne showing up for two paragraphs, are not fulfilling. Now we have to wait? Where's Bran's little brother? I'm rapidly not giving a damn. I wish Daneyrs would show up with all three dragons and lay waste to all of Westeros so this whole endlessly, needing some serious editing, series would come to an end. Color me unhappy.
4 a caveat from me, I did not get into these books until I watched HBO's "A Game of Thrones."  At the shows finale I jumped into book 2 and subsequently tore through all the rest concluding with the just read "A Dance with Dragons."  I.e., there's been no years between books for me, roughly 3800 pages over the summer.Given the connection/split of AFFC and ADWD I'd have to say that AFFC and ADWD should not have been split and Martin's Editor should have insisted it be condensed and edited to move the story along.  Be that as it may, I thought the pace and focus of ADWD was much better than AFFC.I am starting to wonder how he's going to bring all his disparate characters & locations into any sort of conclusion.  In trying to keep this spoiler free I can only be vague in wondering how everyone reconnects in Westeros to settle the game of thrones at play and the song of ice and fire being sung from the wall down to dorne across the narrow sea in braavos and the grass sea outside of meereen.  I can only guess at how/if Ned Stark's remaining children will come back together and reclaim the north.  For that matter will House Targaryen get it together and locate the other two riders needed to saddle up the dragons and reclaim the iron throne?here's for hoping HBO does not catch up to the next book before it's written and published.
5 Those who have finished the novel will know what I mean. I wait on baited breath, GRRM. I love what you do to my emotions, but really, my blood pressure is no fan!
2 Too many personas, too many events, too many quirky sudden changes and revelation, too few plot advances, to meaty cliffhangers...
5 love all of george r r martins books.
4 George R. R. Martin further develops the stories of some characters and introduces some new.  It's nice to see some of the story fitting into the bigger picture.
5 I cannot wait for the sixth book to come out. I am sure that John Snow is not dead and that he will pull through
5 Excellent cliff-hanging continuation of the first four books. I am anxiously awaiting the 6th book and wishing I'd found Mr. Martin sooner.  Also wishing I read slower....
5 Loved the books, can't wait for book 6, last book left a cliff hanger.  Need to find out if John was revived by the light priestess and what is going with Daneries and Sansa.
5 I greatly enjoyed book five.  Book three was my favorite, four took a little longer to read, but five was extremely interesting and a page turner.
5 Bring on the next one.  Not sure if it's available yet. But going to be keeping my eye eye out for it.
5 A must have if you are a collector of this series. The continuing saga of Game of Thrones, highly recommend!
5 Wow!! I thought this book would be like Robert Jordan and really slow but it wasnt. Daenaris is getting ready to take control of Westeros...its AMAZING!! And AEGON IS STILL ALIVE...great revalation!! But i have one bad thing to say...I know George rr martin likes to kill characters...but I felt so sorry for poor jon being killed!!! its really sad....anyway, its a good book. Youll never see what's coming in this book!!!!
5 This series was a mind boggling, exciting fantasy story of non-stop reading! Haven't read something like this since JRR Tolkien. Can't wait for the next book and the next..... and the next.....
5 I now join a growing band of people willing George to hurry up and finish the next book. Woe is me, what do I read while I wait?
4 Great story, but I am ready for resolution!  What will happen to my favorite characters (Tyrion, Jon Snow, Arya, Samwell, Theon, Brienne and Jaime ?  That being said, I'll continue to read his novels till either they or I run out of steam.
2 This story line of this book goes on and on and has no ending.  All the kingdoms are left in chaos with no end in sight.  Because of this I would not recommend this book or the series to anyone.  It was very disappointing and the fact of the matter is I felt like I wasted my time reading all five books.
2 It was a absolutely chore to dig through this book. I did not read it because it was enjoyable, only because I intend to read the next book and missing a hole can be difficult. I hope that Martin has not reached the hubris of Lucas where he begins taking a colossal dump on the good will he built up because no editor has enough stones to tell him that he needs to make some cuts.While I blame the last two book on the author - this is really a failure of the editor. An editor should be willing to tell even a strong author that cuts need to be made and areas tightened up. This is his Phantom Menace - pray there is no Attack of the Clones to follow.
3 [NO SPOILERS]What could possibly go wrong with a book sporting the word "Dragons" in the title, a cool shield (that looks like the back of a Mexican peso) and the fact that it's authored by George RR Martin?Quite a bit, unfortunately.As has apparently been the case with many readers, finishing A DANCE WITH DRAGONS left me with mixed feelings.On the one hand, we get to see some of our favorite characters and the story start to move forward towards greater things.Considering the long 6 years between books, I was pleasantly surprised to find that Martin still knows how to equip Tyrion with the cleverest quips and leave the reader begging for the next installment in the series.Unfortunately, the vast majority of the book leading up to the end felt--no, WAS--extremely drawn out. Just when you start thinking to yourself "Yes! The plot is finally moving forward!" No, Martin takes character A or B and sends them off on a tangent. And even this wouldn't be so bad, except for the fact that these tangents were rather boring unless you like reading about cyvasse games and menus of fantasy fare.In addition to main characters chasing rainbows and wasting time, Martin throws in the perspective of several other "minor" characters. Granted, some of these characters we've met in previous volumes, but do they really deserve the spotlight so late in the game?To sum up my feelings for this book, it's one you'd want to read only once, only so you're fully prepared for what I'm hoping will be a far superior book 6.Finally, as the title of my review states, this book ends with a laugh, but you won't find it within the main body of the text. It's at the very end of the book and, in my opinion, is all the convincing I need that Martin is in serious need of an editor."George R.R. Martin sold his first story in 1971 and has been writing professionally every since."
4 For The Winds of Winter. Of course Martin has again hooked me into hanging on for the next nail-biter, lathered and rabid to learn what is next to befall the characters I love and those I love to hate.Did ADWD answer all, or even most, of the questions I carry or even give proper time (in my opinion) to characters I desired progress and movement with? Well, no. Did the novel exceed my expectations by annihilating my expectations and proving that Martin is the master of ASOIAF? Without doubt. If nothing else this novel blew the lid off the scope I thought I had on this world, giving me a greater admiration for Martin's vision and ability to bring that to his audience with artistry. This is a great big world with great big characters and with this installment Martin proves again that his great big series has plenty of juice.Whilst I did read this one slower first time through (clever monkey catches the clues) I once again lost nearly a night of sleep as the final third of the book was inescapably un-put-down-able. Martin's lovely prose and careful character development are stunning in this installment, and he does offer fans a bit of karmic satisfaction, though admittedly not nearly enough for my bloodthirsty self. Of course there are even more cliffhangers and even less resolution with additional story-lines, but I prefer to look at it as all the more to love.I cannot fathom what it is that motivates some of the controversy and acrimony of some of the other "fans" and reviewers, especially those airing grievances about the time it took to publish, the fate of their fav characters, the Tolkien comparisons, the list of the utter ridiculous complaints could go on and on. I will not presume to speak to any of these but to say that in reading through the nay-saying I found myself struck by Martin's infamous "words are wind" line and how apropos the words feel in this instance. Stop whining and rise up all you irritated, short-changed readers and really stick it to the man: write and publish your own international best selling series, do everything right and show everyone how it is done. We will surely all be the better for your example.For my part, rather than taking Martin's decisions as the storyteller or the length of time he requires to produce a finished product as some manner of personal affront, I will thank the man for having a brilliant imagination and outstanding ability as a storyteller and hope he is at the bloody laptop at this very minute cranking out copious pages on TWOW.
3 Dance with Dragons was better than Feast For Crows.Feast for Crows felt so mundane in parts, with boring perspectives from Dorne and the Iron Islands. Throughout I wanted to yell, "I DON'T CARE! GO BACK TO ARYA!" And so on.Dance with Dragons was a little bit better, but of course it's a parallel to Feast for Crows, which means some of the stories I DID like were left unresolved. We still have the boring Dorne stories, which it was all I could do to keep from clicking right on through.The stories of Jon Snow and Reek made it worth it. After Sam manipulated Jon into the position of Lord Commander, we see how political being in charge is and how Jon is constantly having to balance the needs of the wall with the entitlement from Stannis and his followers. We also see how precarious his position is and how isolated being commander has made him. Ned Stark's presence is felt here, though, even four books later, particularly where Janos Slynt is involved (favorite scene in the book!).The character of Reek is "new," but not really. I'm trying to keep this review mostly spoiler free, so I won't say too much except that an earlier character has completely changed, to an almost "Gollum" effect.Notice I don't mention Dany or Tyrion. I felt like the instant Tyrion left Westeros, he became boring. Sure, he still has his wit, but he's truly too clever a character to be anywhere but a thorn in Cersei's side. I had fully expected to learn that he'd been behind Cersei's imprisonment the whole time or something like that. His development was disappointing.Dany had never been one of my favorite characters. Sure, her dragons are interesting, but she's always felt a bit "Mary Sue" to me--too idealogical. Here I felt she was one-note, where her stories bored me about as much as the Iron Island stories did.Obviously A Song of Ice and Fire has ballooned. Martin has wonderful, tittilating characters and great plot twists. But it seems when he killed off several main characters in A Storm of Swords, he also killed off his reasons the stories were interesting.I'm hoping The Winds of Winter brings back Arya, as she is meant to be, that my worries about Jon are for naught, that Reek continues to make waves, that Sansa is eventually reunited with SOMEONE from her family, that Brienne doesn't kill Jaime, that Cersei dies a horrible death, that Dany becomes more interesting, that Tyrion goes back to Westeros with his head still on, that Sam becomes a Maester, and sheesh... so much more.I will read every book as it comes out, but I'm hoping the sixth book is of the caliber as Storm of Swords.
3 I was addicted to this series, and thought I would never tire of reading new installments. But the last two books have become so dark and brutal that I no longer look forward to returning to the story. There is no denying author Martin's stunning descriptive powers - in particular the detailing of Tyrion's river trip through the eerily fog-bound Sorrows with its massive crumbling palace and ruined statuary looming in the mist. However, there are simply too many sinners in his books and too few saints. In this survival-of-the-fittest civilization (and I use that word loosely) there is far more cruelty than kindness. SOME contrast would be nice. I closed the book before finishing it. I've found Westeros and its world too grim, squalid, desperate, and violent to want to visit again.
5 It was not until the end of book 4 that George R.R. Martin stated that Books 4 & 5 would cover different characters with correlating events. This book helped answer a lot of questions I had after confusion from book 4 and cliff hangers from book 3. It is well worth the read though it is heavy!
4 *Update*I've noticed many of the 1-3 star reviews are written by individuals who either skipped entire chapters in this book, didn't finish the book, or in some extreme cases, didn't read A Feast for Crows.  I appreciate the full disclosure, but I don't believe that a reviewer can offer a meaningful, credible review without completing the reviewed work in its entirety.  I read both AFFC and ADWD completely, and I enjoyed both books.  Not everyone will enjoy them, but I imagine that anyone who skips whole chapters, or even whole books, will, without exception, write a negative review.  You would have to be critical of it before even starting to skip some of the stories, and skipping passages would likely not improve your opinion.  I found that characters I cared nothing about before starting this book, like Victarion Greyjoy, became some of my favorites; I would never have known these plots would come to interest me had I skipped chapters I didn't eagerly await.  Similarly, had I skipped AFFC, I would never even have come in contact with Victarion before starting ADWD.--Review:Martin should have cut the book off as soon as the timelines from AFFC and ADWD converged chronologically.  Or, alternatively, completed some of the timelines that end abruptly -- and in some cases, with an easily discernable next step -- instead of truncating them at 15-30% completion. The former would have made a shorter -- but still long!  -- book; the latter would have made a substantially longer -- but better -- book.Massive spoilers ahead.Some of the plotlines that should have been carried through:1. Cersei's trial.  Ser Robert Strong will certainly win.  (And in the same vein, it's fairly clear that Ser Robert Strong is a resurrected or preserved Ser Gregor Clegane.)2. Aegon's attack on Storm's End.3. Barristan's battle at Meereen.4. Victarion's arrival in Meereen.  Why end with him floating in the straits?5. Bran's further learning from Bloodraven.  Seemed to end abruptly, in the middle of the teaching.5. Theon and Jeyne's time in Stannis' camp, from Theon's viewpoint.I'm glad that certain other plots ended where they did, as the ending clearly segued into the next segment.  They are:1.  Jon's possible death.  I think it likely Melisandre will heal him, as the red priests clearly possess this power, but it's a good, natural finish.2.  Arya's completion of training at the Temple of Black and White.  Her tutelage with her first mentor is a good beginning for her story in the next book.3. Davos' setting off for Skagos.  This storyline will begin (and hopefully end) in TWOW.4. Tyrion's solicitation of the Second Sons.  We don't know his plans, but it's a good finish to his time in Meereen.5. Quentyn's death.  Seems apt.6. Lady Nym setting off for King's Landing.7. Daenerys' rescue/capture by Khal Jhoqo and Mago.I'm also glad Martin left certain stories out entirely.  They will make for interesting plots in the next book.  They are:1. Sansa's engagement to Harry the Heir.2. Brienne and Lady Stoneheart's plans.3. Loras Tyrell.
2 I'm beginning this "review"(although it is more accurately a letter of complaint) before I've finished the book. At this point I'm 62 chapters in, and 81% done, and I'm sick to death of it. I'm struggling to finish, and I never not finish books. The only book I ever didn't finish in disgust was the first Wraethlu book and this is nearly as bad as that. I don't ever remember waiting this long for a book and being so disappointed. Even the Deathly Hallows didn't disappoint me as much as this, and that--if you'll remember my horror at that book--is saying something.I have now finished and while the book took a minor turn for the better it soon plummeted back into "disappointing."The main problem to me is that it's bloated beyond control. I can't blame the editors for this, because I understand they had very little time to manage a monster of a book and it had already been cut down by about a third, apparently, but there's so much padding it suffocates under its own weight, like Lord Manderley falling asleep on his wife, or something.Plus I would suspect that the editors worked on an arc, or a pov, and didn't see the book as a whole--but even if that was the case, there's no excuse for the repetition and rehashing Facts are repeated within the same POV - we are told a dozen (maybe two dozen) times how Tyrion killed his father and Shae, as if we'd forgotten, not only since reading the book where that happened, but since reading Tyrion's previous chapter. We are reminded, over and over and over and in fact, over, who is leal to Winterfell and who has turned their cloak and who are enemies--so many times that I just wanted to scream. Even Asha, who in previous books knows nothing of the grass-soft lords and their history, suddenly seems an expert and we are reminded YET AGAIN what the position is regarding the Karstarks.Every time we see Davos (and as much as I like Davos as a character I was glad we didn't see him more than we did or I would have given up reading altogether) we are reminded over and over (and indeed, over) and over again that he had seven sons and he's lost four and about his fingers.and every single thing else we've ever learned about this insignificant character. It's not as if this fact is pigging relevant. Then, when we are invested with all this time with Davos, he's dropped and we don't see where he goes, who he's with, blah de blah de blah. He's a deus ex machina, simply there to show plot points as they move on.So many chapters are not only rehashing, "as you know, Bob" narration and dialogue, but are entirely unnecessary. It seems that GRRM thought "well, x person has got to get to x place so I'd better show the journey." And the actual journeys are pointless.Seriously. Tyrion's entire story of hundreds of pages could have started "Tyrion woke up and found he didn't like being a slave." Yes,there was one vital character he met on his travels, but his interaction with him was inconsequential and we did need the whole journey and the turtles. Ditto for Quentyn's journey. Ditto for Victarian's journey.This is a classic example of his padding (in miniature)"the sky above Meereen was the colour of corpse flesh, dull and white and heavy, a mass of unbroken cloud from horizon to horizon. The sun was hidden behind a wall of cloud. it would set unseen, as it had risen unseen that morning."You see what I mean. We've had a literary description of the wall of cloud in teh sky, then for people who don't quite get it, we get "it's cloudy" Then for the complete thickos we are told what the consequence of this will be.I am not judging the book on this one section, merely holding it up as a classic example of GRRM taking two or three ways to say the same thing. I have been tweeting over and over that "nothing has happened yet" and while that's not entirely true, it certainly felt like it--probably due to the over-weighted and bloated chapters that are nothing more than description and travelogue and internal (repetitious) dialogue and angsting and telling us crap we already know and listing everyone in the scene and every merchant and every turtle and every type of food and every mercenaryI have learned that - if you can take out a scene, or a chapter entirely and it makes no difference at all to the plot--then that scene is entirely irrelevant and should--must--be excised. Now, of course, I don't know GRRMS plan, it might be that there's a very good reason he left all the boring tripe in, but it didn't help to make this the kind of book that the first 3 were.The problem with the chapters that are (probably) essential is everyone's so bloody PASSIVE. There's a reason Jon is, so that didn't bother me, but what the hell happened to Dany and Tyrion? Did they both have lobotomies somewhere between books 4 and 5? Dany has gone down with a case of Tonks-itis. (Tonks, from Harry Potter was a smart, feisty auror -that alone meant she was in the top 3percent of her class--who rocked in the fighting department.She was clever, witty and amusing. Then in later books she fell in lurve, lost her powers, became nothing more than a weepy clinging woman and consequently died. Even when we see Ghost!Remus later on, she's not with him.) And Dany has gone the same way. She won a Horse Lord's heart, and his followers, and thousands of poorfolk's hearts, then turns into nothing more than a girl in love led by men.Love doesn't do well in this series,as a matter of course. Of course I know that the good side doesn't always win, but sheesh - sometimes they do. But there's no character here who falls in love who gets a fair deal. In fact, GRRM goes so far to list a whole heap of people who married for love and allthe appalling things that happened to them. (that's on top of the main characters who married for love and died horribly. Cat/Ned, Lysa, Dany/Drogo, Tyrion/Tysha and the others who loved without marriage and died horribly... Add to that the sudden homophobia from all corners,when it had been much more accepted before. No, love doesn't do well.LISTs: What was the point of all the lists? Naming every hostage that came through the wall? All the irritating hostages at irritating Meereen (is there a point to Meereen?) All with too many Zs in their names.There were (a paltry few) chapters I liked. Perhaps ten out of 70 PLUS. But they don't save this book which could have been cut in half and wouldn't have lost a thing.I will not be buying the next one. I'll get it from the library.
4 *EDIT* Review revised based on helpful user feedbackI believe Dance With Dragons presents another strong entry into George Martin's world. My enjoyment was heightened partially do to anticipation just to get my hands on another entry after waiting so long after the last book. If you are reading the series for the first time back to back then you may not share this same sense of 'giddiness'.After A Feast For Crows I relished the opportunity to get reacquainted with quite a few character's POV chapters that were absent in the previous entry. It felt like getting to see an old friend again after spending some time away.I was happy with the progress Martin made in this entry and believe it sets up 'Winds Of Winter' to begin the conclusion of the overall plot.I originally had this review as five stars but after reading some of the criticism from fellow users I have to agree on one point in particular. Martin far too often repeats words or phrases for certain characters to the point where it annoys and especially makes rereading difficult. At this point we don't need to be reminded that Dany is a somewhat naive young girl or that Tyrion is upset with his father (repeating 'Where do whores go' a ridiculous amount). Martin seems to forget sometimes that we have already read 4000 pages of this saga before ever picking up book five.Otherwise I enjoyed the book very much and look forward to picking up the next entry (two years from now). Thanks to all the users who left feedback to my original review as well.
4 George R. R. Martin is considered by many to be the Tolkien of the modern day. If you don't know what that means, please go read Lord of the Rings like everyone else on earth, you're probably the only one that hasn't. Martin is well known for being able to craft extremely realistic worlds and characters, and for not following generally any story archetypes, preferring to come up with stories that might actually have happened in real life long, long ago. He is also famous for ruthlessly killing off main characters in rather pointless ways to illustrate that no one person is any more important than any other, be he king or beggar. This adds a further sense of realism to his books, because in real life even those important to the story of your life are not immune to death.Like many grand fantasy epics A Song of Ice and Fire began as a trilogy, but A Dance with Dragons was book five in said numerically challenged trilogy, and there is no end in sight. Whilst writing book four, Martin realized that the story he had outlined for that book was far too long to fit in a single volume. And so he decided that he could either write half of the story for all of the characters, or write the whole story for half of the characters. Eventually he decided on the latter, taking most of the characters I didn't care for and bundling their stories all into one book. This made for a rather painful reading experience, though it did bring me around to one or two characters that I previously had no love for.After a six year wait, book five has finally been released, the second half of the story that was to be part of book four. I cannot tell you how long I have been waiting for this book to come out. All of my favorite characters in the series that were woefully absent from the last volume are back, and none of the characters I disliked make an appearance at all. It was almost worth the wait.A Dance with Dragons takes up where book three left on in the lives of Davos Seaworth, Jon Snow, the various Greyjoys, Daenerys Targaryen, Stannis Baratheon, Bran Stark, and Tyrion Lannister. Some plotlines introduced by characters in book four continue on during this book. This book is not a what happens next in the series sort of thing, it's what is happening with the rest of the characters during the previous book.Jon Snow grapples with being Lord Commander of the Knight's Watch, and guarding the wall while King Stannis tries to undermine his authority and take what he needs from the Watch to continue his war for the rightful claim to the throne. Winter is coming, and with it the Others and their undead servants the Whites. Food is scarce, money is even scarcer, civil war tears the seven kingdoms apart and none can hear his calls for aid. He is forced to take the Wilding people from beyond the wall to help man it against the Others. He lets the ancient enemies of the Knight's Watch, those who have fought against and killed many of his friends on the wall, through to help man it against their common foe, but his own men whisper that when the crisis is averted they will be surrounded by enemies in their own strongholds.Tyrion Lannister has many misadventures fleeing the Seven Kingdoms after murdering his father, plotting to return and kill the rest of his family as well. He seeks to join with Daenerys as she gathers her forces to protect the city she's taken as her own to learn how to rule before returning to the Seven Kingdoms to take the throne that is hers.King Stannis gathers the forces of the North to march on Winterfell to rescue the girl whom he believes to be the last surviving child of Eddard Stark from her marriage to Ramsy Bolton. Elsewhere the young prince, grandson of the former king who was overthrown fifteen years ago reveals himself with an army to conquer the lands that should rightfully be his. He was reported dead as an infant during the rebellion that brought down the monarchy, but through treachery managed to be hidden away in safety awaiting the chance to reclaim what was taken from his family.And north of the wall, Bran Stark finally comes to the home of the fabled Children of the Forest and the Three Eyed Crow who has called to him since he lost the use of his legs.The good? After the last book, which had only one character I liked in it, A Dance with Dragons had all of my other favorite characters and only my favorite characters. The world that George R. R. Martin has created for this series is extremely realistic and well thought out. His sparing use of magic as more of a superstitious sort of thing that only undesirables seek after is a refreshing change from fantasy books where magic is the solution to every problem. His grasp of politics and his extremely realistic characters make for a very believable civil war, and illustrate enmities between characters perfectly. Every one of the characters is distinct, with different personalities and goals. His female characters tend to think and act like real women, rather than like how men think women act.The bad? The cast of characters for these books is huge. There are literally hundreds of named characters, each with his own history that Martin will give once and expect you to remember. To further confuse matters many characters also have the same name, or are named after historical figures or places in his world. For example. There are two men named Pike, a place named Pike, and a Battle of Pike, all of whom are referred to simply as Pike. You're left to figure out on your own which one he means by the context, and it is not always clear from the context which he's talking about.There is a lot of rather harsh language, including the F word and the S word, as well as quite a few other offensive terms for genitalia, and other such things. Practically every single one of the characters in this series says or thinks at least a few words of harsh language during the course of the story.There is a lot of sex and crude talk of sex. The actual sex scenes are typically not graphic, but the language the characters use to speak of it usually is. HBO recently made a miniseries out of the first book in the series and--surprise surprise--it has more nudity in it than any other TV show or movie ever created outside of pornography. If these things offend you, you might want to steer clear. However, don't get the idea that this entire series is about nothing but sex, cursing, and nudity. That's really a very small part of the overall story. I would say read one of the books for yourself and be the judge of whether it's too much for you or not.George R. R. Martin has a strange sort of rambling way of telling a story. The way he talks about things is kind of like listening to a senile old man telling stories of his life that don't have much to do with anything. However, if you're not paying attention to pretty much everything during these ramblings, you'll miss something important for when he tightens the strings and pulls the story together at the end in a way that makes all of the rambling make sense. Some people I know have a big problem with that style of writing and have a hard time getting through things that they feel are unimportant only to find at the end that they were incredibly important.The ugly? This book is yet another in a disturbing trend amongst fantasy series of late, in that it doesn't have a clear climactic ending. The first book I noticed this in was Crossroads of Twilight by Robert Jordan, but other authors such as Patrick Rothfuss, Terry Goodkind, Orson Scott Card, and now George R. R. Martin have begun to do this as well. The climax is arguably the most important element in the plot. Everything builds toward it until it all comes crashing down in an avalanche of awesomeness. It's like the reward for finishing the book, you get a clear victory or defeat, something is resolved, and it's usually in a grand, climactic fashion. Many authors, of late who are writing series seem to believe that since their book is in the middle of the series, it doesn't need a climax to end with because it's not the end of the story, but this is very wrong. Each and every book needs a climactic ending, and no, a simple cliffhanger is not a climactic ending. It's just a lazy way of covering up that your book didn't have a proper ending. I know that George R. R. Martin is capable of coming up with epic climaxes for his books. Game of Thrones ended with the splitting of the Seven Kingdoms and the Crowning of the King in the North. A Clash of Kings ended with the Battle of King's Landing. A Storm of Swords ended with the Red Wedding and the Wilding assault on the wall. A Feast for Crows ended with Cersei's plots falling apart, and the last supporters of King Robb being wiped out. All of those were epic climaxes to epic books, however, A Dance with Dragons basically just ended mid story with vague cliffhangers for each and every one of the characters rather than a clear climactic throwdown. Writers need to stop doing things like this. It takes a great deal of enjoyment out of reading their books when the reader doesn't get anything to reward them for reading it at the end. The reason people read books is for the ending and this one didn't have one.The length between books in this series is ridiculous. I think the shortest time between any of them was four years. This one took six years to get out, and to make things worse, there was another book between this one and the previous one about these characters so the total wait time for the things happening in this book was about ten years. George R. R. Martin seems like he is a perfectionist and wants everything to be absolutely perfect before publishing a book. It takes him an extremely long time to do that as it is, but he also stops to write side projects and publish them. Between A Dance with Dragons and the previous volume in this series he published three other unrelated books. The message boards on his web site are full of basically nothing but people complaining about how incredibly slow he is at getting books in this series out.To recap, yes, this book does have its vices, and it is not for everyone. Many people do not like Martin's style of writing. It didn't have a clear climax at the ending and far too many cliffhangers. However, one thing that should be mentioned again is that this is half of the story that was supposed to be in a single book. Therefore the climax of the previous book was likely intended to cover this book as well. Martin will likely return to form with the next book in the series, granted that he does not split the next book into two as well. Despite the lack of a clear ending where something has happened, this was still an extremely enjoyable book to read, and finally getting to what happens next with all of the good characters was almost worth not having a clear ending for any of them.I'm giving this book 4 out of 5 stars due to its lack of a climax, and the use of quite graphic sexual slang and language, as well as other bad language, and the gratuitous number of sex scenes. Martin is a great writer with great ideas, but he sure does have a filthy mind sometimes.
5 I can't wait until Martin finishes book six. So many questions left unanswered. So many plots and story twists. Well worth the read!!!
3 First, the obvious. Martin takes way too much time to write these books. By the time the next one comes, I've completely forgotten everything but the major plot points. It takes about half of the book to start remembering who is who and what is what. A Song of Ice and Fire is just too dark of a series to go back and reread the first four books to get back up to (slow) speed.Martin spends lots of time in this book making characters do precisely nothing. Yes, it's well written, yes it does keep you mostly interested, but by the end of the book, you wonder why you read it. Nobody progressed much of anything with regards to the story.The worst part is that at least one really cool thing does happen -- finally. But then near the end of the book, Martin pretty much takes it all back again signalling that it will have to re-happen sometime in a far future book. The one word I would use to describe this book is frustrating.ASoIaF is a must read, but it's also amazingly difficult to do so.
5 Love this whole series and am patiently (sort of) waiting for the next instalment.  One of the best fantasy/adventure series that i've ever read.
3 I found the last book somewhat lacking direction or stream of consciousness.  This was the hardest book to follow since it was tied to the fourth book but lacking sequence.
4 I absolutely love Game of Thrones.  I love the rich characterization and made-up history.  I love that Martin keeps surprising me.  And he managed to do that yet again, a few times, in book 5.  I loved it!That being said, I feel like George is spreading himself a bit too thin.  I managed to work my mind around book 4 and book 5 being parallel stories, but the fact is, there just might be too many characters to keep track of.  Though the story is rich and varied, the overall timeline of the story advances very little in this book.  We visit our favourite characters very seldom, making room for ever more new faces and their own baggage.  And can we say cliffhangers?  I estimate about the last 10 chapters end in serious unresolved problems!Perhaps this is just great strategy on George R. R. Martin's part.  After all, I'm joining my voice with the masses of anxious fans asking "When?"  Hurry up, please, Mr. Martin!  We can't wait for book 6.
5 Read these books. You won't regret it. I started reading the book and yes they are a little confusing at first with all the characters but once you get into them.... Wow! Great books. (I think the show is a good cliff notes of the books)
3 When I first started this series, the thing that most amazed me was the sweep of emotions that it evoked in me. From the highest highs to the lowest lows. And the intense focus on the Stark/Lannister conflict meant that whenever one side was happy, the other was unhappy...and with characters on both sides to love, at least one of my favorite characters would be doing well, at any given moment.Well...not anymore. The 'expanding world' of the Song of Ice and Fire series means that now, with so many splintering factions, EVERYONE I love can be miserable at once. And GRR Martin's ability to keep me on my toes, seesawing between emotional extremes, has devolved into a sort of dysfunctional relationship. Somewhere around the halfway point of A DANCE WITH DRAGONS, I just gave up. I realized that whatever I most anticipated in the series would be denied, that whatever I most dreaded would come to pass, and I stopped having fun.I feel like a dog that's been kicked too many times. I'm numb to it, desensitized. A kick from GRRM is just the status quo, and my only reaction is resigned acceptance.A DANCE WITH DRAGONS had maybe three moments that really made me happy or excited. While I can't count how many times I just sighed and thought, "Of course. Of course this terrible thing has happened."It's still an amazing world. And a fantastically intricate plot. Stuffed with compelling characters. But what does any of that matter, if I've been trained not to care for those characters, or root for them, or hope for them?
5 Never have I enjoyed a book or series of books as much as I have in reading the 'The Game of Thrones' series.  I have never read anything that draws one into the characters and makes you feel a part of the story as this series does.  You come to love every character, good or evil and you want to be a part of their lives.  This is one adventure that everyone should experience.  A Masterpiece of writing.
5 If you liked any of the past books then you will like this one as well.  It just furthers the stories along.  I was hoping for a little more progression on some of the storylines as Mr. Martin is getting older and I want to know what happens for certain characters.  I don't want to go into much detail as that would ruin some surprises.  Bottom line: unless you don't like GOT, which if you don't why did you read the last four books? Get this book.
4 The first three books in this series were fast-paced, with lots of huge, game-changing events per book, and that was part of the draw for me. A Feast for Crows and, now, A Dance With Dragons, aren't like that; they're slower, more contemplative, more thematically-driven rather than plot-driven. It's certainly a change, and I was initially a bit disappointed. But ultimately, I really liked A Dance With Dragons (and I ranked AFFC at 3.5).There isn't as much plot momentum here as in previous books, and at times I found that frustrating (although it helped to know about it going in). But I never found the book less than compelling; the character development is solid, the worldbuilding excellent, the writing good and the thematics strong, and enough happened to keep me interested. I enjoyed visiting new places on Martin's map and the immersive descriptions; it's as if I actually visited many of these places, something I value highly in any book. And I really enjoyed the look at the realities of leadership, seeing the characters grow and change, and gradually learning more about some of the backstory mysteries.It makes the most sense to discuss this book in terms of specific storylines, so I'll break it down (no spoilers!):DAENERYS: Unlike many readers, I found her chapters to be among the most interesting in the book. Previously she's done a lot of traveling, and it was cool to see her actually ruling here. The conflict between her values and principles and the realities of her situation was fascinating. A lot of people have been frustrated with her relationship with Daario, but despite his manifest unattractiveness I liked that too; Dany's at the age where this often happens, and how many fantasy heroines are allowed to have a fling? Also, this storyline let Martin flesh out Meereen more than he'd previously done with anyplace outside Westeros; in previous books I found Dany's "eastern" surroundings somewhat two-dimensional, but while the local characters still aren't as vivid as the Westerosi, here he goes a long way toward closing that gap.JON: Paralleling Dany's storyline, we see him trying to rule and the myriad difficulties he faces. Both he and Dany are faced with hard decisions and break new ground trying to do what they see as right, which didn't fail to keep my interest. Ends on a ridiculous cliffhanger--but while I've never liked Martin's ending books this way, he's done it since the beginning and I've gotten used to it.TYRION: His arc resembles Arya's in A Clash of Kings; he spends the book journeying toward a specific destination (Daenerys, in his case), and along the way he meets interesting people, develops as a character and faces a lot of personal reversals and changes of fortune.... without reaching his destination. I was a bit frustrated by this in both books (it's hard not to be). But there's a lot there, and it's interesting to see Tyrion try to make it without being able to call on the Lannister name or the wealth of Casterly Rock every time things go sour.THEON/REEK: Martin likes to challenge your opinion of a character. I didn't like this arc as much as many others; Ramsay is so two-dimensionally sociopathic and evil that it was hard to summon up any feelings toward him, and having hated Theon in previous books, I wonder if being victimized has really improved him. The jury's still out on that.ARYA, BRAN, DAVOS, JAIME, CERSEI: Only get a couple chapters each, although they're interesting. This book is certainly sprawling; there are so many characters in so many different places that it just isn't as unified as, say, A Game of Thrones.QUENTYN: Has an interesting storyline and a complete arc. He himself is rather dull, but he was intended to be. A thoughtful examination of the forces at work on somebody in his position.SELMY: Meh, kind of a less interesting copy of Eddard Stark. He's more another pair of eyes on Meereen than an important character in his own right.ASHA: Not many chapters, but hard-hitting and atmospheric. We get a taste of Westeros winter here, and it's a scary thing. Also, Asha herself is awesome.VICTARION: Also doesn't reach his destination, but there are some fascinating things going on in his chapters. I still hope somebody stabs him though.ALL THE OTHER PEOPLE: Yes, there are more. It's a big book. The downside is that when a chapter ends, we often have to go 100 pages or more before seeing that character again; the upside, that there's a lot going on.Ultimately, a lot of this book is setup, and I'm not thrilled with that; when most of the best books of all time are significantly shorter than this, does Martin really need nearly 1000 pages for setups and transition? It's easy for fantasy series to become self-indulgent, and here a couple arcs seem to have their climaxes deferred; others simply don't go where I thought they would, and that's fine.It's not a perfect book, aside from that--there are some important secondary characters who aren't very vividly drawn (especially true in Dany's chapters), but then there are great bit-part characters of the sort I've come to expect from Martin. I have some reservations about his treatment of gender issues--for the most part he does all right, and at least he's thinking about it, but at times he falls flat because he's just so entrenched in the male gaze.Despite all that, I enjoyed the two weeks or so I spent with this book. It's a well-written, intelligent novel, and enough twists and turns are thrown at the reader to keep me satisfied. None of the characters are the same as they were at the beginning of this book, nor are their storylines. A solid four stars.
5 You can tell that the end is near, and the loose ends are about to be tied. So many questions are left to be answered, and this is why George RR Martin is a genius! One of the best epilogues I've ever read. I can't wait for Book 6!
5 I am sincerely hoping that Mr. Martin continues writing this series.  I love how he keeps changing characters in the books and killing people you don't expect.  Great twists in the writing.
3 It is not my practice to post reviews when my Kindle says I have read only 48% of the book in question.  I am making an exception hoping that things are going to improve.  Right now I am not hoping, I am praying...to the old gods, to R'hllor, anyone...that GRRM has become a factory operation, like Thomas Kinkade Painter of Light, and that he has a horde of apprentices racketing away at their keyboards, occasionally pausing so that He Himself can insert telling phrases like, "Words are wind," to lend authenticity to the product. At this stage of the "narrative" (I know, a jape), we have Tyrion penned up on "The Stinky Steward" with Penny (I used to know an irritating one I dubbed "Small Change," and I pass that along) and a sow named Pretty Pig.  Now that's harsh even for crossbowing your evil father in the gut. I think.  And it's not as though we haven't witnessed Tyrion's remorse for the deed again, and again, and again...  Right now this isn't A Dance With Dragons, it's a Plod With a Pig.  And achingly unreadable.  Thanked be fortune, it hath ben otherwise:  Asha, dead or alive, got a world-class shag out of young what's-his-name before the northmen arrived; I applaud the chapter which made Melisandre actually pretty sympathetic, which I did not previously believe to be possible-- still can't quite get the interplay of Mance Rayder and Rattleshirt, but hell, details-- and as long as I can quit thinking, "This is just like American Graffiti," with all the feckless adolescents cruising after the semimystical Blonde in the White Convertible, things are going along.  Sort of.  Except for this wish I have that someone (Daario is my candidate) would tie Dany up and tell the Unsullied to let those dragons loose after allowing sufficient time for prediction and handicapping on a city-wide basis.I am going to finish this book somehow.  My prediction is that there's no way all of these stories are going to wrap in only two more volumes.  Keep those apprentices typing and call Pizza Hut.
3 My issue with this book is that it's been years since the last one was released.  And since this book is actually picking up from where Book 3 left off, it's been even longer since that one.  A synopsis of what had happened in the previous books would have been helpful.  As it was, since I didn't re-read the other ones prior to this one, I couldn't even remember who some of the characters were or what had happened to them.  Too many names.  I shouldn't have to resort to Wikipedia or Google to try and remember who someone is.  I also would have appreciated an alphabetical index of characters at the back instead of the way he formatted it.  I can't even count the number of times I flipped to those lists of names at the back and would search it hoping to see the name I was trying to identify.All that being said, I found the book a little slow at times.  But the detail and the imagery is astounding.  The world he has created is vast and I was constantly amazed at how he puts so much into his words.
3 I liked reading it. I like the characters, the world they live in, the different cultures. I like GMMR's style and writing. I was curious about how the story would progress. The short version of the premises: Seven kingdoms vie for the throne, as the long season of Winter approaches, and with it an old threat from the north.The book puts a spotlight on a too large cast of characters, while none of the contenders for the throne get anywhere. We literally learn nothing about the threat from the north. It is well crafted, at the same time to this reader does not meet its purpose well.
5 This morning I finished the last page of A Dance With Dragons and am left with an empty hole to fill. There a few writers that can spin this kind of epic fantasy stories without falling into cliche. My previous favorites like Raymond Feist and David Eddings are great and easy readings but they don't "influence" me like A Song of Ice and Fire or Lord of the Rings. A Dance With Dragons, like it's predecessors is not to be taken lightly. One does not simply read these books... Martin takes a wondrous children tale, shakes out the wizards and the black-and-white moral that forms the foundation of fantasy since Tolkien and describes a bleak, cold world filled with people in all shades of grey. The greyness only adds to the depth of the characters. Like reality, this is not a simple story of good vs evil. Rape is common, as is torture and decease is rife. You better not be lowborn in Westeros or you can look forward to fight for your life, virtue and/or possessions almost every day. The "real" dark ages weren't any different though so you can't blame Martin for depicting a realistic setting.It is the constantly changing storyline that makes the books so attractive. Nothing and nobody is spared failure. Ned Stark, one of the main characters in a game of Thrones has been killed which started a war that soon took precedent over the supernatural threat from the North. Even after five books the white walkers remain mysterious. Daenerys Targaryen is losing control of her dragons and finds out that there is more to being a dragon queen then just sit on a throne and rule. Jon is having trouble on the wall. Tyrion is as cunning as ever but finds himself in dire straits after being accused of killing his nephew and actually killing his father. He remains himself though and always knows how to make the best of a situation. Even Cersei finds that despite cunningly building her power-base for thousands of pages, it just takes a paragraph to change it. Nothing is sacred and as a reader you better not get too attached to any character in the book.If you're looking for a fairytale with elves and bearded dwarves and a magical ending, look elsewhere. If you like your dwarves without a nose and a grim story where courageous people fight and sometimes die, with endless intrigue and power struggles and twists and turns where you least expect it, invest some time and read this book. Be prepared to wait a few years for the next volume though as this one took 6 years!
1 SPOILER ALERT: George r.r. martin is a putz. Any author that kills off the main character at the END of a book should neverbe published again. PERIOD. Note, it's been 3 years since he wrote it, with no resolution. I will never read anotherGeorge rr f.---ing Martin book again.
1 While reading the first 4 books in A Song of Ice and Fire Series, I just couldn't put them down. But while reading a Dance With Dragons, I have to make myself read in order to finish the book.The book has too many pointless descriptions of places, clothes and food. There are also too many pointless dialogues and things who could have been told in one chapter, takes 3 or 4. Besides that, something rarely happens.
5 Totally great writing and multiple story lines.  I will be sad when the last book is written  ... you must read them all
3 This book had way too many characters that I could care less about. I am talking about CHAPTER after CHAPTER of utterly useless and boring information on boring characters. Nothing happens until the end of the book. This book DOES NOT MOVE much at all. I was seriously disappointed and skipped entire chapters just to find tidbits of interesting chapters towards the end.No, I did not buy it. Otherwise I would be even more pissed.
4 Book five just like book four more characters take charge more die, more are in other states. Not that it isn't good or that it is bad, it just is. You rout for one then get broken hearted and curse as your hero just bit the bullet. It's an interesting way of writing, reel you in then behead them. Will I read the next one? Yes but only because I want to see the twisted end...
5 I loved this book and the whole series.  I am so sad that I am done now and that I'll have to wait for who knows how long until I get to continue the saga.  I've got to say, Mr Martin could do a little less sexual assault because frankly, that is not entertaining to me.  However, he does weave an intricate web of a plot among all these characters.  This book makes book four make so much more sense, but I still don't like the Arya plotline.
3 Well, it had to be read, because of the unfinished stories leading up to this book. BUT, oh my goodness, how disappointing. The stories led nowhere. All the main characters die.
4 Before everyone gets their nickers in a twist, I want to start this review off by saying that I am a huge fan of the series.  I started reading the series back in college and fell in love with the story, the world, and the characters well before there was even a smidgen of a thought that this would be turned into a HBO series.  Or any series other than a book series, for that matter.  Martin's exceptional style and captivating writing has entranced the world, including myself.  Fantasy lovers get their fix and non-fantasy lovers find themselves enthralled against their earlier judgment.A Dance with Dragons is the fifth book in what should be a seven part series, if Martin doesn't retire or kick the bucket anytime soon.  The previous book, A Storm of Swords, was lackluster at best with many of our characters having been removed from the story for a time.  We were excited, anticipatory, and downright anxious for Dance to come out so that we might get our fix of some of our favorite characters.  And when we finally did, we got 1,000 pages of filler.  Note the use of the term &#34;good&#34; in the title of this review, because I actually mean it.  Despite the fact that the book wasn't what I wanted it to be, it was still good.  Martin is too powerful of a writer to have more than one star taken from him for the somewhat lackluster book.  Besides, like its companion novel, A Storm of Swords, it is clearly setting up.  The problem is, Martin more than likely could have set up by combining Storm and Dance together into one 1,000 page novel instead of two.  C'est la vie.In his defense, his 2,000 pages of filler between Storm and Dance gives us a fuller, more realistic view of the characters, the world, and the history involved in shaping the world.  In fact, this novel tends towards a more historical perspective, swooping in with tales of Dorne, Valyria, the Free Cities, and the slavery-led ones.  What's more is that Martin gives us a few new characters and a few new plots and a few new &#34;holy crap, that's going to change everything&#34; moments.  That alone, helps the story along and keeps his star-rating towards the right hand side of the screen and not the left.Martin still has us transfixed, and despite the long journey we are hooked.  My only regret is having to wait &#34;x&#34; number of years before Winds of Winter even thinks about hitting the printing presses.
5 Well done. More appealing and catching than book 4. The story is more involving and moving forward in a better.
5 I gave it 5 stars because I was tired of rating items that I have not even received yet.You really need to keep up with your quality control a little better. I mean....you are the ones that send out the delivery date
5 Glancing at the ratings for his 5 books in the series, one would think these are just "good" books. They are masterpieces. 1-3 & 5 were slam-dunk 5 star books. They were every bit as good as the Asimov Foundation and Robot Series, better than Frank Herbert's Dune masterpieces; in fact some of the best sci-fi/fantasy I have ever read. Note I did not mention Tolkien's Lord of the Rings. As it was my intro into science fiction (after Andre Norton's great Daybreak: 2250) it will hold a special place and no flaw, other than the running after Saruman's orcs for chapters, will be heard by me. I also left volume 4 for last. I am probably the wrong person to ask. Basically, most of the characters in that book were ones I did not like much ("the villains", more or less). Since my favorite characters had little roles I  rated it was a 4. Book #5 started BOOM and was a 5 star all the way through.because it returned to the complete story, slowly advanced the story significantly, explained moves by each of the players of GOT, brought back a couple players thought removed and left us hanging with the mother of all cliffhangers. Get it, get it quick, keep it safe.....shu
2 let me just say this book was almost a complete waste of time and if the 6th book doesn't tidy up the story line I will not be reading anymore of his books
2 If you're looking for complex development across a large array of characters or amazing descriptions of settings, this is your book!  If you're seeking plot advancement, this book is like watching grass grow...on Quaaludes.  It seems to me that Martin started off this series strong, but lost control over his storyline over the past two installments.  Things have gotten a little too complex to move the story forward smoothly.  And given the pace at which Martin writes, it's a gamble as to whether or not I'll live long enough to see him finish this series off (I'm 55 - really just jabbing here at the years between book releases).  I hope Martin regains the magic in the next book.2 stars...zzzzzzzzzzzzz.
5 Read all five books from "Game of Thrones" and excited to read book six which we hear might be out soon? Hopefully? The writer keeps you on the edge of your seat, has chapters dedicated to each player in the game. Is educational, exciting and captivating. Love it!!
3 Wish he would finish the series already, too much going on and the next book needs to conclude this mess.
4 Great book! Not quite as good as book 3 but still a great read! Can't wait for the next one!
4 Ok, I read it. I discovered these books only this year after the HBO series premiered. I devoured the first two in days, and have read all of the many many thousands of pages since spring. But really, even for me, unintimidated by length and lover of complexity, this has to stop. Someone needed to tell Mr. Martin 3 or 4 books ago that editing can be a gift to the writer. I did not buy this volume, having decided that I've spent enough on the series, with no end in sight. (Libraries, a gift to the exasperated.) Still well written, still full of dark complexity, but I really want him to get to the end. I find the characters interesting (less so with repetition) and I find the politics interesting (less so with repetition), and I find the world dark and compelling (less so with repetition). Oh, have I mentioned the repetition? One other flaw- with the exception of Tyrion Lannister, and a short time in Book 1 in the Stark family castle, this is the most relentlessly dark and unhappy group of people ever to grace literature.  There is (always excepting Tyrion) ZERO humor. A dose of Prozac before embarking on a tour of Westeros would be a wise move. Nevertheless, I will certainly read (though not buy) the finale, if there is a finale.Talent and vision are best yoked to discipline, and Martin's lack of discipline in editing himself has made the series suffer. I started this in the spring, and now Winter is indeed coming, and I have almost lost my patience.
5 This is essentially the second half of Book 4. There are some great reviews of it so I won't go into great detail. Some people love it, some hate it. You have to understand what's going on with the series. The land is recovering from a devastating war. The characters have all scattered to survive and are rebuilding their lives. These two books update the activities of the main characters in their new situations. I have faith that Book 6 will bring everyone back together and their saga will continue in a more organized manner. Book 3 is still the best of the series.
1 Several years ago I read "A Game of thrones". I simply loved it. Martin created a world that was alive and more real than our own because, unlike most books of the genre, both the narrative and characterization were realistic even if the setting was a world where each season lasted several decades."A Dance with Dragons" in comparison, but also on its own, is a pretty bad book, a promise unfulfilled. In a thousand pages the characters of this book travel thousands of miles: they depart from nowhere and they arrive nowhere too. I don't want to spoil anything but one new character seemed to be created only because Martin is running out of characters to kill and he still has, apparently, two books to go.He created a Red Shirt.This was a great series but the last two books were a disaster worse, they were boring. It pains me a lot buy I only gave it one star because that is the lowest rating available.
5 Is he going to leave this way.. When's the next book? He can't die! He must go on writing! Don't stop!
4 This book does an excellent job of continuing with the characters and introducing new ones; moves a little slow in some areas, but overall, I find it as exciting and entertaining as the first four books!
5 The &#34;Game of Thrones&#34; series is a delight. These books are long but fascinating every step of the way. Mutliple characters, great story telling. Hop on board.
4 I read the first book of this extravaganza with my book club, and haven't quit! Not much of a fantasy reader in general, but these books have really grabbed my attention and I will be waiting for Six and Seven to wrap up the many loose ends/characters!  I especially appreciate how the author has continued to surprise me with the many plot twists and turns, and how my feelings about specific characters have changed from Book One to Book Five - I'm now rooting for people I dispised.  As all of these books are such tomes, it is something of a relief to take a break and read something else, work in my gardens, etc.
1 For a 5 book series, with a huge cast of characters, the author seems as though he just gave up tying it all together. If the purpose was to suck me into a 6th book, forget it! But, it seemed like he just got tired. Adios George, I won't be seeing you in your next realm.
4 I love this series, this epic tale, this world and all its characters--even the ones we love to hate--but I agree with several other reviewers that Book Five got a whole lot o&#8217; nothing done in a whole pile o&#8217; pages.  It was a very interesting pile o&#8217; nothing, but it did bog down in spots.  I even took a break in the middle to read a free indie book.  We really did go nowhere, but we had a helluva time doing it.  I will patiently await the next book and will most faithfully watch the series.  Thank you, Mr. Martin, for the tale, both in book and television form.
5 This book had all the greatness you would expect from the Ice and Fire series. Can't wait for the next one to come out!
5 What can I say? All the George R R Martin books are terrific and this is why they were made into the TV epic Game of Thrones.
5 A fantastic story with twists, turns and many change-ups. The Author had many heros and just as many if not more villians doing all kinds of mean and nasty things to the characters.I couldn't wait to pick up the next book!
5 This series was recommended to me by my 15 year old grandson.  I am enjoying it immensely and hope the author completes the next book before I forget the characters and their relationships, forget where we are in the unusual number of storylines, and before my grandson ages into his 20's.
5 Martin continues the saga at the same level of excellence.  Love some characters hate others.  Hope book 6 is out soon!
2 I found it difficult to finish this book because I didn't care about most of the characters. I enjoyed the Arya and Jon segments, but the others rarely held my interest.  I have fond memories of reading the earlier books, but that thrill was largely absent here.
5 This is more than I can or could have asked for oil terribly.thankful for his work of words surpassing much and more.
1 Martin continues his tradition of dragging out plotlines to the point where you want to skip whole chapters to find something significant happening.  His writing skills are excellent, but I've finally realized I don't care for his storytelling.  With so many point-of-view characters it's no wonder that his books crawl.  I have come to believe that he keeps adding characters simply because he runs out of people to kill.I was so disappointed in the ending, after taking so much effort to finish the book, that is the last of his novels I will read.  I am clearing the others out of my library.Read at your own risk and don't expect much in the way of a conclusion.  Then again, that's the way all of Martin's books are so I'm sure you know this already.
3 11 yrs with no Jon, Tyrion, Daenerys or even Stannis and after 900 hundred pages NOTHING HAPPENS!  This book keeps working towards a good ending, and then stops right before it.  And the funny thing is the book did not have to be 900 pages.  All three of the main characters had chapters where nothing happened, GRRM could have removed around 200 pages by cutting some of the extra fat.Thank god for the HBO miniseries, seasons 2 and 3 should ROCK!!!***Spoiler***GRRM - IF YOU KILL OFF JON SNOW I WILL BURN YOUR BOOK AND NEVER BUY OR READ ANOTHER BOOK BY YOU AGAIN!
5 anything that has to do with game of thrones I love this is a great book and story is to cant wait for next installment! a+ thanks
4 A good story, but I long for a satisfying end. Almost all the characters I like are dead or trivialized. Don't know if it is worth slogging through another volume.
4 While I can understand some of the negative reviews,  I thought the novel was a worthy addition in the series.  It moved the story along enough to set up the final two novels.
1 Books 1-3 were engrossing and broke so many accepted standards for fiction, in a good way. Book 4 was acceptable, but overly long for the actual plot(s) progression. Book 5 barely moves any plot forward and makes me wonder if GRRM has totally given up on the series as a whole. It seems more like he is simply writing to fulfill some publisher's obligation. Mark Twain once wrote a long letter and apologized that he didn't have time to write a short letter. That's how this book feels: GRRM didn't have time to write a a good sequel and ended up just rambling all over the place, including every thought he ever had about the story line. And to think I waited five years for this! I feel totally betrayed by the author.
4 I waited too long to buy fook five. I enjoyed the entire book and it fit well with the series. I know some people complain when their favorite character is not given amount of attention they would prefer, but I find the book continues to develop  the characters addressed in an interesting fashion.
5 Great book. Gets back to the usual characters after the departure from boo 4. Typical GRRM twists and turns, Love the entire series.
5 Addicted to this saga. Is there anything else as exciting, creative and fresh? Boy, there are so many twists and turns! Now I must go withdrawal after reading the first give in 6 months!
4 I enjoyed these books. I am a fan of them. The richness of character and the diversity of Mr. Martin's world are aspects I greatly enjoyed. When I say diversity I mean in fleshed out religious plurality, ethnic, racial, etc. It mirrors much of, for myself, what I love about our own world. However, I must say, Mr. Martin's lens of reality is very nihilistic. That, within each of these aspects of diversity and even within the particular lives of the characters-Meaning is punished. Most of all the reflections of the diversity are either the bad (rape, murder, blood lust) or tragic-tragic in the sense that honor, fidelity, love etc. are seen as anachronistic, in some parts. For the most part, though, the best of our Human traditions are shown to be foolish and punished terribly-any form of belief is shown by the 'fates' in this world to be worthless, practiced by fools, honorable fools but fools nonetheless.I would recommend this series for anyone that is stronger in or has experienced the opposite of the truth that Mr. Martin is portraying. For these particular people I think it can be a dark but fun jaunt through a bitter world we are glad is not totally reflected in our own. Yes, all of the horror occurs here but despite it seemingly endless and continuous we see love, fidelity, and honor arise. Not in the abundance of its other, and yet, as I have seen it, if not in equal quantity it is its match in strength.Fun read....for particular people
5 Can't put it down. Book 4 was tough to get thru and now I am soaring on a dragon.  A must!
3 Have you ever gone to a movie of an established franchise and felt like the movie you were sitting through was just one long shameless trailer for the next movie?  This isn't quite the biter taste in my mouth that I had with Feast but its not a pleasant sensation either.  How can a book that is nearly 1000 pages feel like it 300 pages to short?The story is good when it centers on the northDevros, Bran, Reek and John and the IronbornMiddle of the road is probably Tyrion who doesn't do much except travel from one place to another and never quite arrives at the place he needs to be.  I also have to give credit where I can in the three Cersei chapters we are presented with she manages to come across as less intense and insane then she did in Feast.There were also several more POVs that were captivating its two bad we only had 2 max of each of them.Downright frustrating is Daenerys who regresses quite a bit in this book and it is just as confusing that in the end Martin simply pushes the reset button.  I guess dealing with the knot by...not dealing with it yet is one way to manage it.Overall-Martin writes really well and that is almost enough to mask the fact that nothing of many major substance is accomplished in this installment.  If anyone has read the Dark Tower by Stephen King you should be familiar with the feeling.  The first books were full of much promise but considering what this series has evolved into I can't recommend getting emotionally invested.
5 Gripping story. Sad to say goodbye to dear friends. Can't wait for the next chapter.Bring it on asap please.Thanks.
1 I have to preface by saying I loved book 1 but have been increasingly disappointed with subsequent novels. (OK maybe book 3 was reasonable). It is sad to see a series where each book is about half as good as the one before it. Martin needs an editor with an iron fist. This book makes watching grass grow exciting. Really, why take every character that you have built over many books and either degrade them, make them unpleasant and unlikable, or just slit their throat. And while you are at it, throw in some brand new characters who meander around contributing nothing to the overarching storyline.I so enjoyed the first book. I survived the death of so many main characters in the next few books. But now, I just can't be bothered anymore. The whole series should have stayed a trilogy. I can't make the effort to wade through chapters of nothing to get the odd tidbit of plot progression.Can someone tell me after they finish the series if anyone worth caring for survives? Do the dragons come and melt the icy bad guys? Does Tyrion get to be King? Do I really care?
5 I'm a big fan of good guys getting the beautiful girl and really bad guys getting their just deserts. George Martin comes through on both counts once again. Of course I took that on line quiz thing on facebook and found that I'm Ned Stark and fans of the series know that Ned got the big haircut in the first book. I'm hoping the 6th book will come out real soon!
5 Maybe it's because I came late to the George RR Martin opus and didn't have to wait years for the fifth novel, but I am amazed that so many fans seem to hate this book.  I LOVED it.  And I think the fans who write four and five page rants are just disappointed that it didn't turn out as they imagined.  If you want a different book, go write your own!
4 Fantastic, ingenious, Great Read, a sure page turner. A pure entertainment at nonstop intervals. Could not stop reading it.Highly Recommended.Author George Wilder Jr.&#34;Nobody Knows&#34;
4 Keeps me guessing but do not always like who dies.  In some ways, the writing is too dark for me but I find it hard to put the book down.  Very interesting characters and I like the strong women.
4 Last book I won't be a spoiler. The story continues, this is a complex multi threaded tale. Great characters,good plot(s), Audio version great voices, though alittle confusing at first to American ears.
5 Well, Kindle + Game of Thrones = awesome.The book is amazing and kindle also. Online delivery for the book worked as it was expected, interesting story.
5 This was my second reading of A Dance with Dragons and I loved it and hated it as much as  the first. Such rich and varied characters and settings--it's hard to remember that this is fiction.  The way Martin makes you love and root for a character and then deals them tragedy, even death, is just stunning. On goodreads, someone dubbed him "George Really Ruthless Martin and I have to agree.  The worst part is how long we'll have to wait for the next installment. I may have to start all over with Game of Thrones.  :)
3 I waited how long for A Dance With Dragons?It is not poorly written and there are some very good moments in the novel, but it is ultimately filler. Perhaps these pages will be meaningful come book six, but from where we as readers came A Dance With Dragons is tough to appreciate.
5 George Martin is an exceptional storyteller who is incredibly detailed in describing all of the characters in the Game of Thrones. The ongoing and intertwining plots and sub-plots keeps the reader coming back for more
4 I found this to be the weakest of the series so far. Martin's writing is as spellbinding as ever, but when you look back not much happened in the story. I will say the last third of the book picked up quite a bit, but for a book this size, you want a little more progression. I found the epilogue to be especially teasing. Volumes 4 and 5 seem to be great illustrations of Martin's facility with words, but both lacked the energy of the first three books. Still, when the writing is this good, I will be among the audience.
5 The story line is easy to follow. The characters have depth and can make you create feelings towards your favorites.NOW HURRY UP AND WRITE THE NEXT ONE.
1 The initial story line appeared to be sound and could possibly be interesting. But the author's treatment of the characters and twisted scenarios left me cold and disgusted. I never actually got to book five, having given up and abandoned the story on book two. There are good sword and sorcery tales out there but this is not one as far as I am concerned.
2 Reality can be harsh to happy endings. Evil is not always defeated, the hero does not always get the girl, and nobody ever really lives happily ever after. That's fantasy.Take, for example, the tale of a plucky fantasy author, battling to finish his life's work, who overcomes a six-year-long bout of writer's block to at last complete the fifth installment in his epic. It would be nice to think that the book thus produced was worth the wait. That would be the happy ending. But reality can be harsh to happy endings. "A Dance with Dragons" is not the book I waited six years to read, and to wish otherwise would be fantasy.George R. R. Martin's "A Song of Ice and Fire" series was never mere fantasy, but with each new volume, it is becoming more and more a daytime soap opera.Mr Martin famously spent the second half of the 80s working in television, and if I may jump to unwarranted conclusions, this experience seems to have helped him break new ground by infusing fantasy with some of the best aspects of TV--sharply-drawn, sympathetic characters, crisp, witty dialogue, and intricate plotting.He's also made clever use of catchphrases and personal mottoes to provide a kind of leitmotif to each character's story and give a sense of continuity and cohesion to the tale: "A Lannister always pays his debts", "If I look back, I am lost", "You know nothing, Jon Snow." More famously, he's gotten good mileage from his willingness to kill off seemingly key characters at surprising moments.Maintaining such a high standard of writing for even one book would have been an impressive feat. Mr Martin managed it for three, stumbled on the fourth, and after 20-odd years working on the series, the fatigue is beginning to show.The personal catchphrases continue to get good airtime, with "a Lannister always pays his debts" featuring five times, "If I look back, I am lost (or doomed)" six times, and "You know nothing, Jon Snow" an impressive 13. However, much of the other writing has become simply repetitive and lazy. The phrase "words are wind" also pops up 13 times in various character's mouths, "much and more" (meaning "a lot") gets used as hefty 30 times, but this is pipped for the number one spot by "(s)he was not wrong", at a teeth-gritting 33 times. These phrases have become less a leitmotif, more a pianist banging the same three chords over and over again.As part of the series' gritty image, Mr Martin has never been shy about including sex in his stories, but now he appears to be shoehorning it in, simply for its own sake. One character spends the night before a siege having graphic sex. Another pays a surprise visit to one of his generals--and interrupts the latter mid-coitus. A description of a man being burned at the stake takes time out to tell us what happens when the fire reaches his genitals.The habit of killing off characters has likewise devolved into self-parody. Having already killed off most of the expendables, Mr Martin spends most of "A Dance with Dragons" only appearing to kill off characters, but not really. One is apparently executed, but isn't. Another appears to drown, but doesn't. Yet another seems to be beheaded, but--well, you get the idea. The effect is a bit like the boy who cried wolf, and cheapens the book's finale, in which two key characters appear to die, since by then the reader doesn't believe for minute Mr Martin will actually follow through.The other major drawback to the wholesale slaughter among named characters is that Mr Martin spends much time introducing a slate of new characters in much the same way that the old Star Trek series used to introduce new red-shirts.What is left? Plot, but not much of it. Most of the characters spend their time somnolently staggering from A to B. There are sporadic bouts of frenetic action, to be sure, but the story itself continues to plod along, fairly aimlessly as far as I can see. With no resolution to any of the major plot lines anywhere in sight, it's increasingly hard to care about any of the latest crop of characters, knowing they probably won't live much longer than halfway through the next book (when and if it is ever published). It's only in the handful of chapters that "Dance with Dragons" shakes off its lethargy and wraps up in a number of cliffhanger endings.I would like to believe the series will get better, that all questions will be answered, all the plot lines will come together, but if there's one thing Mr Martin has taught me, it's not to believe in happy endings.
4 I know a LOT of people are professing their disappointment in A Feast for Crows and A Dance with Dragons, stating that the books are nothing more than stalling and the characters aren't truly going anywhere. But I have to state for the record that George R.R. Martin's worst book is still better than some of the best books I've read by many other authors who try to imitate him.The characters continue to grow and mature, and I think that was more important than jumping on to the next big issue in the book. It's called development, and in a novel it takes a chapter or two... eventually leading the novel to a much bigger and better conclusion. Unfortunately some people want instant gratification, and that isn't something you're going to get from this book. What you will get is more background, history and development of characters. You'll start to feel empathy for some of the characters you hate and frustration with some of the characters you love. They make decisions and go places we didn't forsee in the earlier books. And with an epic series of this kind it sometimes takes an entire novel to build the story up rather than a few chapters in a novel.I, for one, was extremely satisfied at the end of A Dance with Dragons. It left me aching for more, and frustrated that I have to wait for the next installment. I hope this series continues to develop and grow and doesn't come to a cataclysmic end. We've spent so many books anticipating the coming of winter, that I want to live through the winter and see the spring with these characters I've come to know!I highly recommend this book/series to anyone who enjoys fantasy and historical novels. From teen to adult, I think anyone would enjoy them.Happy Reading =]
5 My husband read these and loved them. I picked up the first one and read a chapter or two and set it down. Now that I have a Kindle it is hard to read 'real' books. It isn't really my genre anyway. Then the series came out on TV and I was hooked and read them all. I will say had struggled a bit with all of the people to keep track of and I'm not certain his transitions are as good as they could be. My suggestion to him would be that if you have that many character and story lines that adding some clues would help along with better transitions. I suspect that the editor has his hands tied and isn't allowed the full capacity of his job.So it is hard to say whether I just didn't want to read the book the first time or the author didn't visualize them enough for me so keep that in mind while deciding to consider my rating. There were moments when I passed the series and had to go back a bit or rework things. If I had one thing to say to George RR Martin is, don't change your mind. If it happened in the book and you second guess yourself and wish you'd done something else, let it go and stick with the book. Makes it a bit confusing.
5 Oh George!  I read all five of your books in a row and I am hooked but oh so mad!  You left me hanging regarding some of my favorite characters AGAIN! I admit I was not as happy with book four and all the new characters featured.  I don't want to care about the fate of any new characters. I have my quota with the original characters. Thank heavens you got back to them in book five.  Hooray! Seriously, book five advanced the action for Daenerys, the Starks and the Lannisters in dramatic and, at times, shocking ways.  George, your extraordinary creativity in crafting unusual environments and interactions while keeping the characters very recognizably human shines in "Dragons".  The surprise (to me) at the turns of events in the latter parts of the book has me completely puzzled as to where you will take the multile plots.  When does book six come out?
4 Liked the book, loved the series.  The last book seemed to be a little too long, but that's just my opinion.  Not long as in too many pages, but long as in drug out.
3 Not as quick a read as the previous books.You absolutely would be lost if you had not read the first four books. I am enjoying it, but that is mostly because it continues the story,
3 This story line could have been wrapped up a lot quicker than it has been.  I'm actually starting to find it tedious to read it.
2 I am getting a little impatient with this series. I want to like it, but really, must every likeable character get the shaft? And I feel that the plot has run away with itself.
4 It has been so long since the last book of the series, it's hard to remember some of the details he is talking about.  But so far the story is living up to the rest of the series.  I am about 1/3 of the way through the book now and can't wait to pick it up again.  I take it everywhere with me so if I have even 5 minutes I can see what's happening next!
1 Books 1, 2, 3...works of genius. Amazing! Spellbinding! Couldn't shut up about them. Book 4? Hmmm. Maybe it's a fluke. Maybe the author has been ill. But here now we have Book 5 and the realization that it's no fluke. Martin has lost his way.Like every other reader, I want the original characters and families to come back! I want them to evolve, grow up, turn evil, go mad, save the world, destroy the world...anything! I could give two figs about the hundreds of new, irrelevant, window-dressing characters that were introduced in 4 and 5: One-Eyed This, One-Armed That, the Giant, the Forked Beard, Green Grace, Blue Grace, Kindly Man. It's exhausting. If there's a prize for 'Most Useless Characters in a Single Novel', Martin wins.The power house families have crumbled but rather than rebuild them (Lady Catelyn appears only briefly in Book 4 despite her character's fantastic potential for vengeance and villainry!!) Martin has thrown us bones like Ramsay and Daario, hoping that we will keep gnawing.Seriously, I love George Martin's writing and he tells a wonderful story but I'm not sure I can endure a Number 6. Maybe we're all better off watching where HBO takes the story.
5 So many unfinished story lines. I don't like being left hanging. Another exciting read. I read all the available books one right after the other. The best books i have read in a long time. I am already itching for the next book. Much better than the show.
4 This story is gripping. I look forward to reading this again. The plot has many unexpected turns. The experiences of the characters is palpable.
4 Awesome extension to the series, hopefully we won't have to wait a million years for the next one like we did for this one
5 My husband enjoys this series of books.he s read all of them, and looks forward to the rest in the series Thank you1
5 After my husband and I read the first four books he wanted to read the last in this series.  He loved it.  I have not yet read the book, but I am sure to those people who love the series and TV series will love it.
4 I liked all the books in this series. The characters are engaging and the writing is great. I'm looking forward to the next book.
5 I read many of the negative reviews and I find that I can only agree with some who felt that a lot of the chapters dealing with Dany's court problems were too long and quite tedious.  The other great compliant I read was about the story not being moved forward.  I disagree in that Martin has set out to create a world populated with characters you can believe in. In real life as you grow from youth into adulthood and then old age each of us encounters a myriad of characters.  Some play a major role in our lives; most do not.  But all of them combine to contribute to the richness of our experience.  I felt Martin was emulating life to a great degree in this fashion and what I took away from this read was the enjoyment of being given a further tour of a world that had captured my attention from the first volume of this saga.  If Martin was any less adept at painting scenes with words this book would have been horrendously boring.  As it is he still has the talent to whisk a reader away and show them the marvels of a world capable of harboring dragons.  I just wish he was able to crank out the books faster but if the time waiting is needed in order to achieve this level of word-smithing  I can be patient.
5 I am pretty amazed by the number of people that say this is what I want to happen in the book or this is how I think this book should proceed!.  Oh really!!!  Attention all current and future readers of THE SONG OF FIRE AND ICE.  This is George Martins book, he is God of this books world and he will write the story and decide what happens, that's all.
5 What the heck George? What are you trying to do to me? I have invested my time and energy into these characters and them you kill them off like they are cannon fodder!!!!!I waited forever for A Dance with Dragons to come out in paper back. I was not disappointed. It kept my attention right from the beginning until the end....waiting for something to happen....and I waited.I cannot think of another author who can write a tomb of over one thousand pages who resolves nothing and leaves you wanting more. Where is the next book I want it now!!!I need to know who wins the Game of Thrones.
4 It's autumn in Westeros, blizzards are already blasting the Seven Kingdoms with brutal force, and "winter is coming." Jon Snow is treading a dangerously fine line between keeping the vows of the Brothers of the Night's Watch and involvement with King Stannis' revolt. Tyrion is on the run for his life and hopes to find an ally with Queen Daenerys, but as is always the case with the Imp, he just manages to trade one peril for greater ones. It is Daenerys' destiny to reclaim the Iron Throne for the Targaryens, but doing so now means leaving her conquered city to her enemies and the slaves she has freed to their former masters. Meanwhile, her dragons are growing bigger and more unmanageable. As all the great houses make their bid for who will rule the Seven Kingdoms, north of the Wall the restless dead are gathering en masse to invade with the winter storms, adding slain victims to their ranks.Just as all the previous books in A SONG OF ICE AND FIRE have been, A Dance with Dragons is a tombstone-sized doorstopper of a book. (I purchased the Amazon Kindle version, and I swear my Kindle was heavier after I uploaded it.) An age has passed since A Game of Thrones kicked off what just might become the most influential series in fantasy since LORD OF THE RINGS. I've been anticipating A Dance with Dragons ever since I read the last sentence of the last book, A Feast for Crows, almost six years ago.A SONG OF ICE AND FIRE is a colossal-sized epic. There is no getting around the fact that this series is really one long book. I think Mr. Martin's idea of a conclusion for each book has been to build up to the most shockingly climactic outcome imaginable and then leave the readers in a nearly painful lurch of a cliffhanger. (Fair warning: the ending of A Dance with Dragons is no exception.) This is made almost intolerable by the fact that fans will be lucky to get more than one installment per decade.But if you can put all that aside and just take the events as they happen in A Dance with Dragons, there's no denying it's another grand adventure.George R.R. Martin is one of those authors who could write the Yellow Pages and make it exciting. As complex and as large-as-life as this story is, and even considering how long it's been since I last visited his world, I had no problem keeping up with A Dance with Dragons.Martin has created some of the most interesting characters ever, and there are so many of them. It's amazing how he can tell a story from so many unique perspectives. I'm not sure I even know as many people living in the real world as there are living and dying within these books.He draws the plot out like a sharp blade from a scabbard -- one that will easily cut the careless. His underlying theme that every hero is the other side's villain is profound and believable. All the players in this deadly game of thrones have a strategy that seems like a guaranteed victory. But since Martin solidly established early on, that no one -- I repeat, no one -- is safe, it's anyone's guess who will hold the Iron Throne when this is done. Providing there will even be a throne to win. That will depend on the Crows holding the Wall against the wights and other monsters that have yet to strike in full force.It almost seems impossible that Martin will actually be able to wrap this thing up with a worthy conclusion, and do it in both his and his readership's lifetime. Call me crazy, but I think he can. Afterwards, blurbs on fantasy book-covers will claim comparisons to George R.R. Martin and A SONG OF ICE AND FIRE, like they do now for J.R.R. Tolkien and LORD OF THE RINGS.
5 Expect the unexpected. Martin writes a roller coaster story that will have you excited and anxious for the next page one moment, and then screw with your emotions by killing one of your favorite characters. If you're looking for a &#34;feel good&#34; read, skip this book and shop the romance section. If what you want is drama, action, unexpected events and emotion... read this series. Please George, I need the next book. I'm totally addicted.
3 After waiting what seemed to be forever for this installment to the Game of Thrones series I was rather disappointed. This piece of the story is typical Martin style and has the excellent flow to it. What it was lacking was the normal progress through the story line that we were so used to. A Feast for Crows and Dance with Dragons really should be combined into one book (it would be humongous) because after all, they're almost a reflection of each other but from opposite sides of the mirror. I guess Game of Thrones fans will have to wait another 4+ years for any progress on the story line to be made.
5 Great read. I cant wait for the last Book in this Series. I was very dissapointed that it will not be puplished in 2014.
5 I really have grown to like the characters and look forward to see what happens to them next. The author has a lot of imagination.
2 With this latest book Martin has found a steady predictable pattern. It goes like this:Stalling, stalling, stalling , stalling, interesting, boring, stalling, stalling, exciting (a few paragraphs, not a chapter), boring, boring, boring, stalling, interesting, boring, stalling, stalling, exciting (again only a few paragraphs), boring, boring, boring, stalling, stalling, stalling, depressing, depressing, depressing.You come to realize that when something exciting happens, you will turn the page, the chapter will end abruptly and you will be whisked away to the most boring threads he has, even if he has to make a few new irrelevant threads to do it.What I have come to realize is that my initial expectations were wrong. I expected an epic adventure, but Martins intent does not seem to be to write a "story" in the usual sense. That is to say, it isn't meant to have a beginning a middle and an end. There is no character who comes from humble beginnings, works through his trials and saves Westeros in the end. What Martin is writing is more like one of those generational dramas. The characters mill about and then die and their sons and cousins mill about and then die. The value in this type of book is that it gives you a thorough look at life in an interesting time and place, but they are seldom what I would call entertaining.If I had known this would be a generational drama instead of an epic adventure I would not have bothered in the first place. Martin can be a great writer when he wants to, but he is in desperate need of a strong editor who can help him with plotting and pacing. I will not be buying the next books when they come out. Instead, if by some miracle he lives long enough to finish them all, I will have a look at the final chapters and decide then if there is enough payoff to justify sludging through the final books.
2 Very disappointing.  A huge let down from previous books in the series. Not sure I will buy the next book....
3 Not to the level of the first three books....not by far.  Dance was long, ponderous, with little action of forward movement. The characters were stuck....doing nothing.  Pages and pages of traveling on ships, pining for cute sellswords, worrying about food and making beds for wildings, etc.  The major characters are on the way to do something, but all we get is....."on the way".What is most depressing is knowing that we have to wait for five years for the next book.....so I have to live with this bad taste in my mouth for that long.Dissapointing for Martin, who is a great writer, but better than the average book.
5 The story just keeps going and I love the movie based on these books, but they can't keep either of them coming out quick enough for me.
1 When George started killing characters that I loved, I bit the bullet and plowed on, thinking that it would be all right in the end, that some of them would prevail and "win" if you will, but it seems as if he knows no other plot twist than to kill off many of the characters and then maybe bring them back with the "magic" we were told was not that prevalent in this world. Martin has "lost the plot", quite literally.  He has lost control of his characters and the narrative and knows no way to contritely wrap up a storyline. The story goes nowhere in book five and a character that I have been rooting for since book one may have been killed off, making all of his efforts wasted, if this is so, it is a disgrace, but even more so if he is brought back by some mystical rite. I have lost all faith in this series, add another one-star to the pile.
5 Overall Its worth 5 stars, but this comes with the frustrations of several dangling story lines that won't be continued until the next book in the series (possibly out in 2014).  Some story lines were enjoyable while others were difficult to accept. The story lines that I look forward to the most pertain to Arrya, Tyrion and Brienne.
5 Wow, I am enthralled by this series.  The story landscape and characters are exciting.  I hope Mr. Martin can produce the next book in the next year of two.  Thank goodness for the TV series.
4 I liked this better than a feast of crows I can also understand some of the bad reviews but with this series it's not so much about the minor endings as the journey.
4 So nice to read about the main characters form the first book again. Everything starts adding together. Looking forward every time my eyes close for the night, and to the next evening where I get the opportunity to read the book again...
3 I am completely hooked on the  Game of Thrones series but somewhat disappointed with Dance With Dragons.  Just can't get past the feeling the author is introducing many new characters to keep the series going while sacrificing the more important plot introduced in the first book.  The author makes excuses for some chapters being out of sequence and it's just that....an excuse.Hey Amazon,,  you charged me more for Dance With Dragons for my Kindle than I would pay for a paperback!!  Don't think we haven't noticed!
5 Great book. No character is sacred. This allows for true suspense and emotion as you connect with the characters. Great read
4 This is likely the last one of the series I will read. I understand that our lives often seem to be an endless circling around issues and seeking after elusive goals but, somehow, reading endless anecdotes of characters with whom we've become involved is not my idea of a great read. I wanted some resolution to the chaos of their lives--but it only happened with one: Jon Snow.
3 I feel that the author has lost interest in the real story in book 5 and is just interested in adding new people just to keep the books going. keeps killing off the people that you become familiar with just to add new people.  I did like the other 4 books.
4 As a continuation of characters I've grown to love and a connection to what I am guessing may happen in future books, this held its ground. I adore this series--the world, the ruthlessness with which Martin orchestrates it, and the way he has sucked me fully and completely into anticipating future outcomes. I have theories, I want to talk to people about it. Not since Harry Potter have I been so invested.But this book doesn't stand alone. It is a piece of a whole, so as a book it falls down a little. The first three of the series were sublime, the 4th and 5th less so--he has sprawled the story a bit too thin. I just hope that in the last two he is able to pull back to the magic he created initially. I believe he will... middles are often unruly, but I suspect less patient people may be annoyed.
5 I love this series.  Only gripe is that the story is so long that I can't remember half the plot of what I already read.  Can't wait to read the next 2.
2 It saddens me to say this, but GRRM has fallen from the throne of the best writer. Where the first three books were pieces of art, A Dance with Dragons, just like its predecessor, represents a continued downward spiral of a once great series. I absolutely cannot understand how an author with consistent good writing, in first three books, can mess up so badly. Suffice it say, I found myself skipping through the book. The book was too long and accomplished too little. The POV characters seem to be frozen in time while we are reading about other POV characters. It is safe to say that GRRM has hit a writer's block because only that can explain this disaster of a book. I say disaster because I had high expectations from GRRM, honestly speaking, this was an average fantasy book but it doesn't deserve to be in the same series as a Game of thrones, Feast for Crows and Storm of Swords. All I have left to say is that its high time to let this dying horse to be put out of its misery.
5 As always, another great book written. Now on to the next!I always hate go be left hanging on for the next, book.
5 I thought this book was a great addition to this series...I was upset at the end when it seemed that my favorite character is murdered.  However, I enjoyed the journey...
5 I bought them separately instead of in the group so it is easier to find which book I am in.  Highly recommend them if you like the scifi/fantasy genre.  So much vivid detail, good storytelling and even better than the TV adaptation.
4 Ok, I just finished DwD and I wanted to share my thoughts. But before I do, a little background info:I started with the HBO series and was just awestruck by it. After watching all ten episodes on HBOGo(in 3 days!) I knew I had to read the books,like yesterday. I am not a fan of fantasy novels and less so of series which require so much of its readers. Regardless I jumped in head first. I started GoT a month ago and much to the horror of my husband and kids, didn't come up for air until I had finished DwD.I have read the reviews and while I understand why some people wouldn't like the pace as much as the other books I have to say that I was not disappointed. Yes its slower and YES I heeded the warnings and skipped most of Dany's chapters as well as large portions of Tyrion's.Im still giving this book 4 stars. I wont go into a detailed review as there are fans who have done that, and better than I could. I just want to say that if youre invested in the series, you will be doing yourself a disservice by skipping this. GRRM hasn't let us down only changed our course a bit.There were some slow parts, granted. But the story. Oh the story! Im still lost in the world he created, still rooting for Dany,Tyrion, the remaining Starks and my sweet hero Jon Snow(or whoever he may actually be). Im also rooting for characters I had long written off as unlikable or worse. I believe in GRRM and Im just as engrossed with ASOIF as ever.
4 A lot of what the other reviewers say has merit.  The story does not progress much from the last book and it could have used a bit more editing. I never got to a point in this book where I absolutely couldn't put it down even to go to sleep (a point I reached many many times in the first 3 books in the series) but I also never had to force myself to pick it up again like I did for the first half of a Feast for Crows (The second half of Feast totally redeemed the book for me though).  A lot of Dance for Dragons is a build up to the next book, but there is enough new food for thought to keep it interesting and Martin's writing is so good, his characters and the universe that they inhabit so rich, that the book is still thoroughly enjoyable.
5 I haven't quite finished the book as yet, but I am loving it as much as I loved all the others. The attention to detail as well as the unpredictability of the story has me on the edge of my chair. I am just wondering how long we have to wait for book 6, and from what I understand, book 7 ? Keep up the good work Mr. Martin, you are amazing.
5 I loved all the books, this one is no exception. It actually gets better and I would recommend it to everyone. If you wonder if the series is worth watching if you watched the TV show, then yes, it is. I started with the show and then bought all the books and read them in a matter of 4 or 5 weeks. It's this kind of addictive books you can't stop reading. Trust me, Mr Martin is awesome.
2 I enjoyed the first three books of the series, but the last two left me feeling cheated and sorry that I had ever started reading A Song of Ice and Fire.  I feel like Martin could have cut out a lot of pointless material and given us a satisfying trilogy with a real ending. Instead I wasted a lot of time and money as I slogged to the end hoping for resolution.  I have told my husband who has watched the TV series not to bother reading it.The best thing I can say about the series as a whole is that the books had really good titles.A Dance with Dragons was the worst of the series.  It goes round and round like water down a toilet bowl.  I kept thinking at least one story line would reach a satisfying conclusion, but, alas, it appears Mr. Martin just gave up.Normally, when I read a series that I enjoy, I seek out everything else that author has written.  Even though I have heard good things about Martin's earlier work, this series has left me with no desire to investigate.
4 As with any series, I recommend you read the books in order.  Because this is how I read, I can't remember where this particular book begins and where the previous one ends. A Song of Fire And Ice is an exceptional story, and I recommend it to anyone who will listen. The only thing that is difficult is it is SO detailed and there are SO many characters, it's easy to get lost and feel like you need some sort of reference guide. (Which you actually have, in the back of the book) I've never been much of a fantasy reader, but my sister is, and this has been her favorite series since the 1990's when she first discovered A Clash of Kings. (The first book) I will warn you tho; this series has yet to be completed, and with the author continuing to write and publish other stories right now, it's easy to start feeling an inappropriate hatred and annoyance for the author, as it seems he knows about and is therefore flaunting the power he has over his readers.
5 The whole series is fabulous. I started reading the book because the TV series progressed too slowly :) I like the way mr Martin tells the story and even though he is criticized for being overly descriptive if blood lines and the composition of dinner menus, I enjoy how he builds an image of a coherent world with different cultures that can be sensed through various aspects. The story telling has gained some pace and this book, like the others in the series have some amazing plot twists that you can not expect at all (unless you've heard spoilers, but still they surprise you).A must read for every fantasy book lover.
4 I've actually read this book and have updated my review accordingly. the first time I read the book I found it very slow and meandering compared to the previous installments. However having decided to give it another chance I realized that I was a little hasty in my judgement. The book though not as good as the first three is still beautifully written and the Reek story line in particular is touching. can't help thinking the ending was a bit of a let down but then we do have the next book still to come!
2 once again mr martin has strayed off the story and "A dance of dragons" was a disappointment.  I had been waiting for some closure. Where is the war that was due? what happened to those characters we fell in love with in westeros?? book 4 went over the cliff and book 5 hit rock bottom.Please Mr. Martin get back in the groove, take us back to westerow and finish what was a stunning, colorful, whole heeated story so many of us fell in love with
5 I want to get to the end *now*, and I never want to get to the end of this book! And I hope this book series never ends. The TV series are good, but as always, the books are far better.
5 That's what reading reviews on Amazon can do to you... I had been enjoying with strong enthusiasm the serie up to the fourth where I started struggling with lesser characters, too much of Cercei and a lack of the more interesting ones. Then I started checking about it on Amazon and a very good review started to give me doubts. It stated that the serie was very unlikely to end due to the very slow pace of writing of Mr Martin. As I was tired by my reading of the fourth, I did put the reading of the fifth on standby.What a mistake!In fact, "A dance with Dragons" fits in the serie perfectly well. I won't spoil anything which means I won't say much by consequence about the story. Enough to say that Jon, Tyrion, Daenarys, Arya are here again. There are many very nice moments where my heart started beating faster.Let me assume that you have read up to the end of the fourth at this stage. I will state that "A Dance with Dragons" is the complement of the fourth as books intended to set the stage properly before continuing with the story.I do personally like the writing style of Mr Martin so I won't complain about him taking too long. I guess it is a question of taste, if you want a fast paced serie, this one may not be for you. I do enjoy when the story stretches, specifically when the characters are interesting. It creates a kind of intimacy for me with them.Do not get fooled by believing that nothing happens in the book. The story develops itself in many different directions, some kind of expected and some absolutely not foreseen by me.If my memory is correct and if there have not been any updates since the last time I checked, the six one is supposed to be a few years after the end of the fifth. I am impatientely waiting for it, I am still afraid it may take the author as many years to write the next book than for this one. This means five years!!! Hopefully, HBO's interest may lead him to increase his pace but I am just speculating.Conclusion:If you have come up to the fifth book of the serie, you cannot be anything else but a fan. Or you like torturing yourself... Anyway, if you were disappointed by the fourth and its lack of really interesting characters, this one will restore your enthousiasm. Good reading!
5 I'm a fan of the game of thrones series and my son got this for me as a gift . Started reading it and I have not been able to put it down except to write this review.
5 I give 5 star ratings to books that keep me up well past my bedtime and that leave me wanting more when I get to the last page. Anyone who loves fantasy will want to read this, but the characters and action transcend the genre and should appeal to anyone who enjoys any kind of adventure. The only caution is that the violence and sexuality may offend certain readers, otherwise enjoy.
5 I've been reading these books for over a year now, and I just love this world more than I can ever express. I don't want the series to ever end!
1 The author appears to be using a Soap Opera formula. You know where you watch the episode for 30 minutes and the plot progresses for about 15 seconds or not at all. I kept wondering, is this some form of writers ADD or has George gotten hopelessly lost in his own story lines. Too bad, this could have been a epic series, some of the story lines are fascinating and the character's rich but it has fallen and it can't get up.
3 I'm a fan of the Song of Ice and Fire books, but I have to say, compared to the first three books, things are starting to take an ominous turn. If I was talking about the story getting darker that would be a good thing but, sadly, I'm not. Let me explain...In the early books, things moved quite nicely along. Plots were plotted, intrigues were intriguing and action was thick and fast.As the series has progressed, however, things have taken a decidedly odd turn, which I'll label, "The Robert Jordan" effect. Now I like Jordan's books, but at a particular point his Wheel of Time series ground to a halt and endless irrelevant characters were introduced for no good reason whatsoever. This is what appears to be happening to GRRM's Ice and Fire books. Irrelevant characters? How about Asha Greyjoy? Grinding to a halt? How about this very book!If one summarised what happened in Dance with Dragons, it would go something like "Characters wander about a bit, the plot doesn't progress more than a hair's breadth and hoped for meetings and resolutions don't happen."I wish I could be more positive about the book, but this is the first of Martin's works that I've actually started skimming paragraphs because I felt they were pointless and uninteresting. This is usually a really bad sign for me, since I like long, epic books and series. I like a lot of grist and fat to chew on in a story. But when that fat turns out to be rancid, I'll spit it out and give it a miss, thank you very much.There is also an increasing incidence of what I'll refer to as "Time dilation" going on. Martin will spend two hundred pages describing an unimportant trek for one of the characters. Later, another character seems to teleport from one place to another without any detail of the journey, whilst that same character elsewhere has other travels painstakingly detailed.The entirety of the book could be condensed down into three hundred pages or so without losing any of the substance or important details in the story.I've given this three stars, but that is more out of respect for the earlier works. I hope the next installment sh9ows a decline in Martin's tendency to pad things out.
3 This book is between 2 and 3 star for me and I'm being generous with the 3, rather than 2 given the previous books...I just got done reading the book, and wow...it was really disappointing in many respects.  Fantasy books are suppose to entertain us, not lock us into some boring tale to stroke the writers ego for his ability to describe every flower and every stone in the world created.  There were some great parts to the book, but overall, Martin seems to been afflicted by the Robert Jordan syndrome of getting far too enraptured and engulfed in his own yarn being spun, that he gets tied up in knots.  This book was indeed a VERY long yarn, just as many of the later books in the Wheel of Time series, before Sanderson took over.  This book is just simply boring and extremely repetitive is so many parts that I found myself forcing me way through arts of the tale.  I'll forgo any deep spoilers, but one of the most interesting characters in the story has been Tyrion, but what the heck was up with his boat trip?Another of my favorite Characters, Jon Snow...I'll save any spoiler here, but I was HIGHLY disappointed with regards to his development in the story (I also think I clearly know where he's going with this angle...which is only adding to my dissapointment).  Yet another POV that consumes so much of this book...Daenerys...WTF Martin?!??!  What happened to the confident queen that had arisen in the previous book?!?!?Bran's tale was a dead end...and I'm not sure where he's going with that, but at least we saw movement with that.  The only saving grace of the book was My favorite of the series, Arya...my fingers are crossed, but there is A LOT of horizon movement on her story as well.I had enjoyed the series, because of the gritty writing and Martin's boldness in having all cards on the table in telling the tale.  I've always dislike writers who heavily rely on "gotcha" plot devices and "cheap" mechanics to get plot moved, but this book was riddled with it to an unprecedented level.  With two books projected to be left in the story, I can't see how it is going to be remotely possible for Marin to tie up all his loose ends without gutting the plot and heavily rely on even more plot devices to reach a conclusion.  The even worst alternative is a money grab and extension of the series to additional books past the stated 7th one.  I only started reading this series 2 years ago, so I didn't have the painful 5 year wait, but likely, if he takes that long for the next book, I'm almost going to skip it.
5 Continuing the story with new alliances.  Are the dragons a bonus or a detriment.  Just always want more.  Characters keep evolving in fascinating ways.
1 I felt this book was just awful and will now stop reading this series.  It offended me that reviewers thought him to be an American Tolkien when his writing and vision are so far from what Tolkien created.  Tolkien created a deep world full of challenges and magic and hope in what is good. Not to mention that his writing was transcendent.Martin creates a brutal world where babies are eaten by wargs and murders are featured as main characters and morality has little meaning.  Who really cares what happens to many of these petty characters and who cares who wins the battle for this world?  Not me any longer.  Horrible and meaningless to me.  Nothing at all to compared with Tolkien.
1 This was such an exciting series, so much foreshadowing, hints of plots to come, intrigues to play out. The problem is that none of it ever happens. This author has no plan. He just writes very well but I don't think he even remember book one. Tolkien he's not. Too bad.
3 A Dance With Dragons I found is much the same as the rest of the Game of Thrones series, with plots running in a dozen different directions, characters making bizarre choices or being killed off just for the sake of it.I can understand the idea behind trying to make it realistic but it is a book and could try to use a bit more imagination and have a few more happy endings instead of killing off good and interesting characters all the time. I keep telling myself surely one of the Stark children remaining will turn up at Winterfell to claim their fathers seat but remain disapointed. Maybe in the next book, one can only hope.
2 Some of the characters in this book were killed off in an earlier book.It was confusing at best and more characters added when we wanted toknow what happened to the others?Is there another book coming??????  It did  not finish very well.I was totally disappointed.Jon was attacked and we don't know if he is dead or alive - where is Sansaand Littlefinger and Lady Katelyn?This book was very long and very little of it tied together.I loved the other four -  this one was hard to read.
2 I won't go into detail since many others have done a far better job than I can. I'm only about 1/3 through this book so far. I was very disappointed in Feast for Crows and this book will join that one in the disappointment category. Storm of Swords was sooooo good! I didn't expect the 4th and 5th books in the series to be as good, especially since I had read the reviews, but my gosh. I'd say it's a fast read because you can skip a lot except in places it's so boring that I tend to fall asleep (I only have time to read at night). I wanted to read Dance with Dragons right away since I have been reading the entire series this year after getting hooked on the HBO show. All I can say is, I hope Winds of Winter is better and doesn't take Mr. Martin 5 years to publish because in 5 years, not only will I have forgotten everything I've read, but I may not care. I guess if you're a fan of the Song of Fire and Ice as I am, this is a must read, as I considered it, but be prepared to slog through it and be prepared for the characters to act differently than they did in Storm of Swords. 'Nuff said.
3 George RR Martin always claimed he needed the 5-year gap between "Feast for Crows" and "Dance" to deliver a quality product and worked tirelessly on this sequel. To me, despite the long wait, the book reads more like a rushed effort that was not really edited at all. There are multiple redundancies in the plotlines, and many chapters that don`t move the plot at all.Even worse, the initial plan to divide several Point of View - characters storylines (Dorne, Iron Islands, Kings Landing etc. in "Feast"; Meereen, The Wall etc. in "Dance") is not followed through as several "Feast" characters appear in "Dance". The books were once intended to be published as a single volume, but now one would like to re-organize the disjointed chapters/timelines again. The character development of Daenerys is written badly - she is a mere damsel in distress in this book, unlikely, given her development in the previous sequels. And Martin also overuses dramatic cliffhangers in this installment.The good news: Many chapters - except the Daenerys storyline - are very readable, it is certainly a better novel than "Feast for Crows", and even if it doesn`t help the plot development, the place & landscape descriptions make it a pleasure to get lost in Westeros (or Meereen, Ghis etc.) again. This author can still write if he only would put some effort and dedication in it. But I have now serious doubts that all loose ends and cliffhangers can be advanced to a satisfying conclusion of the series.
4 If you're reading reviews for &#34;A Dance with Dragons&#34;, chances are you've read the previous books in the same series, and by now you know whether you want to know what happens next or not, so there's really no purchase advice to give here...A Dance with Dragons is very much in line with the rest of the series in terms of quality. George R.R. Martin is still the same fantastic/sadistic combo, and we can only regret that the plot doesn't move forward much despite the book being over 1000 pages. That said, if you like the universe and the characters, there's no reason not to read it, and be prepared to wait a few more years before the saga comes to its conclusion.
5 I continue to love the way it's written, although I want to know the ending for each character already! I waited until I could make the purchase on sale.....sorry I waite so long.
5 This volume is as good as its predecessors.  Martin has so far surpassed Jordan in current Epic fantasy, though like Jordan, he may pass the ideal point for a conclusion.
5 hoyt mcguyerThis being &#34;the last&#34; book, I wish to say here and now, &#34;I want more!!!&#34;.It took me 2 months to work my way through the first 4. I drug my feet on this one knowing the story ends here.As far as I'm concerened, thats the only down side to the collection. It ends.
4 A Dance with Dragons is the fifth book in George R.R. Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire series (on which HBO's Game of Thrones is based, with season one covering the first book).  It does not, however, follow the traditional pattern of picking up where the fourth book left off.  Rather, due to the fourth book ballooning out of control during writing, A Dance with Dragons picks up where the third book left off.  A Feast for Crows (book 4) was limited to the action in south Westeros and Braavos; A Dance for Dragons concentrates primarily on the action in the North, the Free Cities (not including Braavos), and Slaver's Bay.  Not until more than halfway through the book is a plot thread from the fourth book continued chronologically.  And make no mistake, the concentration is all on the North and Essos.  Only six chapters of the seventy-three total take place in the south of Westeros.  While this leads to greatly missed fan favorites being heavily featured (Tyrion, Jon, and Daenerys POVs combine for almost half of the chapters in the book), other fan favorites are almost absent (Arya, Jamie, and Cersei POVs combine for only five chapters).  There is no shortage of action and politics as Jon tries to prepare for the coming of the Others, Stannis and Roose Bolton maneuver for control of the North, and possible allies and ruthless enemies begin to converge on Daenerys.The split between A Feast for Crows and A Dance with Dragons causes some issues (neither feels like a solid, standalone novel), but it makes sense not just geographically but in terms of an inflection point in the story.  A Feast for Crows in many ways wrapped up most of the major plotlines that drove the first three novels, while A Dance with Dragons features storylines previously on a side stage becoming the main show.  Martin appears to be well on his way to righting the ship after stumbling, and if the sixth book is weak, it cannot be blamed on its predecessors.  I personally rank the book above only A Feast for Crows in the series, but very close to A Clash of King (which is perhaps praising with faint damnation).For all of its good points (basically everything I don't specifically mention in this review), the book is not without its weaknesses.  The plot continues to suffer from a greatly reduced pace, lacking the breathtaking rush to climax of the first three books.  Much of the suspense of the story has subsided as well, and the climax is minor compared to that of earlier books.  This is probably unavoidable for a "middle" book, forced to worry more about transition than anything else.  What is not unavoidable are Martin's portrayals of the "good guys" in positions of leadership; they frustrate, as Martin continues to mistake justice for cruelty, honor for stupidity, mercy for weakness, and leadership for an inability to listen.
1 I would review this book if I could get my hands on a paperback edition.  I am waiting for it to come out in paperback so I can read the book.  The hardback is too heavy for me to carry around with me.  It's been 2 years, what's the hold up?
5 Let me precede this review by saying that, in my opinion, this is the worst of any of the 5 ASOIAF books. I even enjoyed it less than AFFC. Why then, am I giving the book 5 stars? Because it is an excellent book! Being the worst of a spectacular series does not equate being bad.What I dislike about the book: Some parts truly did just drag on. Also, I disliked certain characters that were added to the book. Specifically: Old and Young Griff. I found that their addition completely upended the story without any good reason for doing so. They are pretty boring, and I hope they die.Overall, I found myself unable to put the book down. I blazed through it in about 9 days of heavy reading. George RR Martin really does know how to flesh out a story. The environments he develops are rich, the characters are endearing and intriguing, and the story is engaging. Despite the slow plot progression, a number of the plots really did have interesting, unexpected, and delightful twists. It was a wonderful experience reading through the book. I wish I always had a book that I loved as much by my side - life would be so enhanced.I recommend this book to anyone who has read and enjoyed the first four books. Sure, we are going to have to wait years for the next release, assuming it happens, but that does not change the fact that this book is superbly executed and a wonder to behold.Highly enjoyed. Highly recommended.
4 I started reading this series recently, so I did not have to endure years of waiting between books.  This probably makes me less annoyed about the extraneous bloat, found particularly in the first half of the book, that seems to have put off many of the other reviewers. And yes, there are cliffhangers. But there have been cliffhangers in all the other installments so it's not a huge surprise that the author resorted to more of the same.  And with 2 more books scheduled in the series, the next one is also unlikely to bring resolution to most of the story lines.That said, I enjoyed the majority of the story. Do I wish I knew more of what happens to everyone? Do I wish that the first half of the book was pared down by thoughtful editing? Do I wonder exactly where the author is going with this? Do I hope I don't have to wait 5 years until the next one is published? Do I wish I had my own dragon? Yes, yes, yes, yes and yes! But it was still a worthwhile read, and I look forward to the finding out what is next in store to these interesting and flawed characters (and the dragons...)
5 All the books in this series are wonderful reads.  Some are better than others, but when compared against other series, this is one of the best.  This book is sans &#34;amazing&#34; moments found in some of he other books, but it's hard to craft one of those moments.  They just happen.  A couple of the story threads become a little maddening, since main characters tend to brush against one another without interaction.  But that's really the lone complaint I have.
2 I really enjoyed the beginning of the series, but feel now he's got so many characters that he isn't moving the story forward and a lot of it just dragged for me.  I have to say with as long as he takes to write the series, I don't know if when the 6th book in the series comes out whether I'll pick it up again or not.  It just seems like he gets you interested in a character only to get rid of them in some horrible way and then pick up the story with characters you didn't even like or was interesting enough at the start to continue the story.
3 I was so looking forward to the 5th book in this series...at first I didn't realize that there would be a 6th book and was soooo disappointed.I hope the 6th book wraps up all the loose ends left at the end of A Dance with Dragons...and it gets released soon!
2 I had a professor once that said you should make any work of art strange enough to be interesting, but if you get too weird, people will get bored and go do something else. I had a lot of time to think about that precept while I was reading this book, because my mind was constantly wandering as I dutifully trudged through these tedious pages.Maybe I should start off by saying I really loved the first two or three books. In most books you're willing to put up with a certain amount of what you could call informational garbage. Pages that aren't necessary to the plot, but they fill out the characters in an interesting way. The detail on the whaling industry in Moby Dick is an often-noted example. There seems to be a lot of dalliance for its own sake in these books, and although at first it's something I put up with and even enjoyed, somewhere the balance tipped and beyond that point the book became a slog.I read one review the title of which was apt and creative: "The song has become a noodling free jam". When a main character dies, it's exciting and chilling, and you wonder who's going to fill the power vacuum. But after five books, they're dropping like flies; you invest time and emotion in a major charismatic player, they get murdered, and you stop seeing the value in emotional investment. On the other side of that same coin, so many of these dead characters become magically resurrected that it's usually two or three hundred pages before I allow myself to believe that someone is actually dead.I wanted to finish the book, so, even though I wasn't enjoying it per se, I plowed through the final three or four hundred pages. The ending of the book was like the beginning and the middle. Seemed somewhat vague and unsatisfying; why should we care about these characters? Where's the trajectory? What's the point?
2 The first three books in this series are a wonderful reinvention of a tired genre, the epic fantasy novel. Many have compared Martin to Tolkein in the process, and it's true that they have each invented a complete Otherworld, real and yet alien, filled with acutely realized characters.But Martin stumbled in Book Four, and falls in this, Book Five in the series.There's some good here. Thankfully, Tyrion is back, and Arya continues to be a complex and enigmatic character. Some of the intrigue on the Wall, with winter falling, is gripping. When the dragons eventually appear, they are as fearsome as dragons should be.But much of the rest of this book is dull nonsense (please fans, don't flame me!). It goes on, and on, and on, and on. I skipped pages of filler. Many of the plot-turns feel false and hurried. In the final chapters the book falls apart. There are so many incidental characters it becomes pointless to try and follow the numerous sub-plots that in any event aren't interesting. I could go on, but I'd be committing Martin's sin of saying far too much over and over again.What happened, Mr Martin???
1 I loved the first three books of the series but the fourth seemed half a book and went nowhere (not surprisingly since Martin claimed that it was half of a book and the other half would be out in no time). After five years we get this absolutely worthless excuse for a book. Chapter after chapter introduces one or two characters, moves the plot forward infinitesimally and then skips onto the next. Half way through I realised that even if I finished the book there would still be TWO MORE to come (by 2023 given his present pace). I think that he has written himself into a corner, he has no idea of how the plot will end, if it ever will.
5 love all the characters! the plot! the twists! I just didn't like at all that the book didn't have an ending, I'm waiting for the next book anxiously!
5 Woohoo I liked it although the epilogue was the best part. Although I will read it again once the whole series is written.
3 While ADWD was for me an entertaining read for the most part (partly because I had nothing else to do at the time), many of the stories go nowhere. GRRM said he just had too much for the sequel to a Storm of Swords to fit into one book, and so we get two books, one featuring Cersei slooooowly destroying the Lannister legacy at King's Landing, and a bunch of random side characters barely doing anything. In this one most of his 'star' characters do jack s*** as well.Tyrion: Maybe the worst chapters, aside from the first two chapters, Tyrion basically rides on a boat going to see Dany, and he basically plays Westero's chess with some Targaryan relatives that have before been completely unintroduced and have established no reason to care about them. Tyrion meets these characters and has tons of inner monologue about everyone on the ship, and with him is another midget-girl, who (as another Amazon review noted) is the equivelent of Jar Jar Binks for ASOIAF. Tyrion never makes it to his destination and instead slogs around in chapters that try to hook you, for example Tyrion seeing stone people who pull him over the ship, whoa, where's this going, did Tyrion di-DON'T WORRY, everything in the chapters afterwards are the exact same as the preceding ones, Tyrion on a boat. *SNORE*Daenery's: GURM seems to have a running theme throughout AFFC & ADWD where women apparently can't rule for s***(just like real life). Dany feeling good about freeing the city from slavery now faces starvation and disease, and prettymuch takes all of her advisers advice while she day dreams about Daario. Like Tyrion, her chapters are sluggish and neverending, and I found myself skimming through her chapters. Despite the book's title the dragons are locked up for most of the book not doing anything while we follow the mother of dragons failing miserably at ruling. Finally near the last two chapters, something starts to happen, then the book's over. Yay.Jon: His chapters are a little more interesting. He's basically trying to organize the wildlings and night's watch to work together for the impending white walkers, as well as tolerating Stannis' wife and ignoring Melisandre's advice. By the end of the book not much happened here too, but the chapters were still interesting enough to read all the way. Then he suddenly dies. Lol.Theon/Reek: By far the best chapters in ADWD, we see what was once Theon after the tortures of the Dreadfort accompany the Bolton's to Winterfell to establish their claim to the North. His chapters were not only page-turners that kept me up at night, but they were also haunting in many ways. These chapters alone made the read worthwhile.While there's some good stuff to cherry pick out of A Dance with Dragons and the read was fun for the most part, I reflected on the book afterword and realized not much happened. The major characters that established themselves in A Storm of Swords kind of just stagnate in the same place chapter-after-chapter, while the new characters are thrown into the story without any development or hook, and not much of value has happened by the end of it. In the first three books, Westero's felt like a giant chess board, each major character making a decision was like the pieces moving around the board changing the outcome drastically, but by now it feels like GURM ran out of steam. Seems after killing off a lot of major characters he doesn't know what to do with the ones he has left. I'm just going to admit it: I miss the war of 5 kings.Also why does he insist on cliffhangers now? They were in the prior books sure, but so much has happened prior that it felt like a major set up to the next book. Here, pretty much all you have is the cliffhangers. John, Briene, Cersei, and Daenary's all barely do anything until their final chapters then GURM just stops the book and says to us "WILL THE WALL SURVIVE? WHO WILL WIN THE BATTLE OF WINTERFELL? WHAT DID BRIENNE SAY TO CATELYN? AND WILL WOMEN EVER RULE COMPETENTLY?(lol no), TUNE IN NEXT TIME TO FIND OUT!-complete with cheesy organ music in the background. How about instead of saving that s*** for the end and meanwhile writing about food in pornographic detail, GURM fleshes out the story more instead of letting it stagnate. It'll be a real shame if ASOIAF never picks up after these two slumps.
1 WARNING! SPOILER ALERT: The author should spend less time with the hbo series and more time with decent writing. This series started out great. It has become nothing but a mishmash of drivel by book 5.  Too many characters with no substance.. Nothing but pages of mindless meaningless words that drag on but do not advance the storyline.  If the author had stuck to the major characters and expanded upon them instead of killing them all off, the book could have been on the level of Tolkein's work. That comparison has now been lost. What is left to look forward to after the author has killed off Ned Stark, Caitlyn Stark, Joffrey, Robb Stark, Brienne,and a host of others.  Now we're left with Jon Snow stabbed 4 times and no knowledge of his fate at the end of book 5.. Is he dead or not? This is tiresome. The few remaining characters need to 'grow up' in the next book and the Stark children should be returned to Winterfell with the help of Jon Snow to rebuild. It would be perfectly legit for Tommen or some king to release Jon from his vows to the blackwatch so he could stay on as their protector along with perhaps Sam as their Maester and help Gilly raise both 'babe's, or something along those lines.  I'm just weighted down with the total chaos of this series. I keep waiting for the author to understand that we have no reason to have any kind of attachment to the books or characters when we know he's just going to kill them off anyway.. So why bother? Enough of the frivolous killing off good characters. Something good needs to happen and stay happened. lets MAKE SOME PROGRESS! I'm so disgusted with this series that I'm pretty much done with it.. If it remains this stagnant I won't be buying anymore. there was enough good material in these 5 books to have made 2, possibly 3 great books but the inclusion of so much drivel and wasted characters has expanded it to really tiresome reading. Just way too much froth. It's beginning to sound juvenile and in no way written by the same person who started the series. This author is losing his audience to anger and a angry audience won't buy his work anymore. No one wants a constant let down.  Just my humble opinion.
3 seriously some elements in book 5 really reminded me of the wheel of time... this dude needs some original thought. i did love ht first 3 books tho.
4 The only thing I disliked about the book was that it could have been pared down without losing the story thread. If Both this book and the last had been edited with an eye towards moving the plot forward we could have had one book instead of two. That being said, This was still a better read than most other fantasy books out there and I will wait eagerly for the next installment.
5 It is long, tedious at times, but still George RR Martin and he still makes you hang in there. Nothing goes as hoped quickly and somehow I was glad to finish it. I hear the next book isn't for three years. I hope I still remember this one by then.
5 love this book too. arya's new found skills. dany's new power. the greenseer found. can't wait for knowing what bran can do. ah.. mr martin i hope your health is good and finish this series before anything happens to you!
2 Boring. Does not live up to first three books. Does not need the sex as it is not true prono, but limits recommemding to younger readers. Lost train of story, therefore would not recommend.
3 that that puffy fat little man has enough time left on earth to finish this quagmire? I sure don't. Maybe he should sell the franchise to that Aragorn kid...there's somebody who could use a new idea!
5 [Pre-Review Rant: One thing is certain when it comes to a truly good epic fantasy series like this one. The longer the series goes, the more the author does NOT repeat himself, the more complex and intricate the plot becomes, the less each book stands alone, the more thought provoking each installment, the more popular, the louder the most critical fans will proclaim their discontent.]A Dance with Dragons feels more like the first book of A Song of Ice and Fire's second major arc than a sequel to A Storm of Swords. The first arc, depicting the War of the Five Kings, took up the first three books while A Feast for Crows is both an epilogue to the first arc and a stepping stone into the second arc. Dance builds off the world Martin created up to this point and takes it in a whole new direction while still staying true to all that has come before.This is my favorite book in the series so far. Well worth the 6 year wait, but then again, I've always felt authors should take their time rather than rush, but maybe that's just me.Dance is, in turns, funny (I laughed out loud more times during this book than any of the previous ones combined), heartbreaking (should I be too much of a man to admit I cried, cried like a baby?), awe inspiring (there were multiple scenes that left me breathless), frustrating (in a good way), frightening (okay, I'll stop with the parentheticals now), epic, adventurous, mysterious, and every other thing that an epic fantasy novel should be. The plot is steeped in history and political intrigue, the characters pop off the page, and the settings leave you almost breathless in their beauty.And, of course, Martin does what he has always done best. He keeps you guessing. Just when you think you know what's going to happen... Psych! I'm not going to put any spoilers in this review. He takes characters we know and love and then plays boggle with our heads. People we despised before suddenly become sympathetic, while people we once loved supremely get on our nerves. He also brings into the forefront new characters who are every bit as entertaining as the ones we've lost.The only real criticism I have when it comes to A Dance With Dragons is the pacing early on. I got over that quickly enough, though, when I thought of it as the companion novel to A Feast for Crows. While I read, I always tried to keep in mind what was happening in Feast at the same time. I hope someday GRRM comes out and releases A Feast for Dragons or A Dance with Crows and puts all the chapters together into one volume as they were originally meant to be.
4 I read the five existing books back to back.  There will be two more, yet to be written.  These books are so long that by the last book, I just wanted to be done with them.  Don't get me wrong, the story is definitely worth reading.  The characters are rich and colorful.  The HBO series really brings these books to life.  If you can't read the books, definitely see the HBO series.  This series is full of interesting characters.  Sometimes it's difficult to keep all the characters straight.  But there is a list of characters and relationships to each other at the end of each book.  The author's style is very easy to read.  I would definitely suggest this series to my friends.  And I'll read the final two books when they are released.
4 Love, Love, Love Games of Thrones series. However, the last installment of the series hasn't grabbed me as the previous ones have. I am enjoying catching up with the activities of my favorite characters who were left out of the last book, but it seems to be off to a sluggish start.  I admit that I haven't finished the book yet and  will.... Maybe there have been too many characters introduced in the beginning, making the catching up a little more tedious.  I am sure I will be anxiously awaiting the next installment!  Come on George, get that next one ready soon.
4 Anything written by Martin is consistently excellent, and I am a loyal fan of this series.  There are some chapters in the second half of the book that are among the best he's ever written, but I must agree with most of the reviews that say the plot goes nowhere.  Martin is just moving his characters around like chess pieces in order to get them in position for the final two books.  He should have stuck with his original plan and kept Book 4 and 5 together and edited it down a bit - fans would not have said no to buying it.  I cannot give him less than four stars for Dance, but when I was finished reading it I felt as though there should have been more going on in over 1,000 pages then there was.  Hope we don't have to wait five years for the next volume.
3 ...for the second straight book, turning the series into a song of waiting...and waiting....for something...ANYTHING...to happen, at least with the main characters: Jon, Daenerys, and Tyrion. With 'A Feast For Crows,' the holding pattern wasn't nearly as excruciating for me. After the insanity and intensity of 'A Storm of Swords,' it was almost expected that there would be a little breather, the calm after the storm, and the calm before the next storm, while Martin slowly put all his pieces into place.But after another thousand pages, the story has slowed to a near-standstill, and I'm beginning to wonder how necessary these last two novels were, as the majority of events could probably have been covered with about a third of the page count without losing much substance. After page 500 or so in 'Dance,' the timeline moves beyond 'Feast's' timeline, so I looked at the second half as sort of the first book of the second trilogy (with 'Feast' and the first half of 'Dance' providing the bridge between the two), and we all know how non-stop awesome the first trilogy was. In truth, the second half was more of a slog for me than the first half, the story crawling to the finish line, a stark (no pun intended) contrast to previous entries in the series, where the intensity would build and build, culminating in a series of climaxes. But with 'Dance,' once the novelty of being back with my favorite characters for the first time in many years wore off, so did my interest level.It's not ALL bad, however. Martin's descriptive prowess remains in top form here. When he's describing a scene, it's never difficult to picture what's happening, or what the setting looks like, it all flows very well. It just takes Martin twice the page count these days to accomplish this. The chapters are also twice as long as earlier books, but with less plot development, and more descriptions of feasts, everything eaten at the feasts, and what clothes are being worn by the eaters of these feasts. Still, Martin has a way of drawing the reader into his world, and it was nice to catch up with my favorite characters, and spend some time taking in the sights, sounds, and smells of Westeros (and Essos). Martin excels at making you feel as if you're actually there, one of the main reason's why I still consider 'Dance' a pretty good read overall. He also develops the history and mythology of the world in more detail here, giving it a slightly more epic feel, which is definitely a plus.Also, while I found most of the main characters' storylines to be underwhelming (although each had their moments), the book truly shines with the secondary characters' POV chapters, particularly Reek's, Quentyn's, and Bran's (he seems somewhat of a secondary character now). These chapters were very well-written and infinitely more interesting and absorbing, although one could debate just how necessary they are to the main story. I'm split, in that I love my epic fantasies to be EPIC, with as much insight into the world as I can get, but it's beginning to seem as if Martin is losing control over the story, that it's becoming too unwieldy, at least if he's still planning on the series concluding with book 7. Either way, as good as these chapters were, it wasn't enough to put 'Dance' even in the same ballpark as the first three. I'd probably put it on the same level as 'Feast,' though I was more disappointed with this one, as I was expecting so much more. Still, if the final 2 books are anywhere near as good as the first three, it all will have been worth it. There's still time for Martin to turn things around, if he can get off the side roads, back alleys, dirt roads, and switchbacks that lead to nowhere, and get back on the main highway. Here's hoping he can pull it off.
4 This series has more plot twists and surprises then you can shake a stick at. Always keeps you interested and wanting more.
5 Great fifth book in the series!! I just wish I waited for this book to be included in a bundle pack. I hope G. R.R. Martin is writing another book in this series. I can't wait for the next installment.
5 What can be told about this one? If you're fan of the series, go get it now! Lots of surprises on it.
1 The 5th book in this series is as boring and a slog to read as was Book 4. Enough already, just get to the end so I can know who survives and who wins the war. Books 1-3 were well written, and this is NOT a 10 book Harry Potter series. It has taken me to SKIMMING through 70% of the book just to get to find out what is going on with the Character Cercei. The subplot for Tyrion and Jorah was UNNEEDED, UNNECESSARY, and should did not do anything to improve this book. George, PLEASE, if you read these reviews, stop writing already and get to the end.  If you do not mind paying for this book, you could just read the last 4 chapters.  I understand there is a Book 6 coming. At this point, I will wait until the LAST book to buy another one.
5 Very pleased with the whole series.. the characters just keep getting better, even the ones you love to hate. Can't wait for the next one, although I know I'll have to...
5 One of the most interesting reads I've had in years.  The characters are so well developed that it&#8217;s hard not to fall hard for the characters.  The TV series does the story well.
5 ADwD is, in my opinion, some of the best individual moments in the entire series, tied together by the same kind of plodding character work and stalling that plagued AFfC. While many events could compete with the best moments of ASoS in excitement, wow-factor, an emotional pain, there just weren't enough of them.The main three characters of the book are Jon, Dany, and Tyrion, who spend most of there time politicking and sight-seeing. If you have major enjoyment of world-building without plot, you will like this book. The book also includes many old POV's and some new ones who only show up briefly, but many of them have some exciting moments. Bran, Arya, and Cersei did great work for barely being around, as did Davos. And one old character, whose name I won't mention, turned in some of the best chapters in the whole series.The major flaw of the book, however, is that it kept building to an epic climax that had to pushed back to the next book do to print length. While that may not be as annoying once the Winds of Winter finally comes out, it it still a sin against this book. Hopefully the next book is fantastic.
2 I realize that books in the middle of a series must necessarily seem rather incomplete and that they must set up the concluding books, but this wasn't worth the wait.Martin is still 'hiding' too much stuff while apparently attempting to set up his conclusion.  At this point I am expecting the biggest deus ex machina since Philip Jose Farmer crapped up the ending of "The Fabulous Riverboat" series.  It appears that Martin has somehow boxed himself in from whatever storyline he originally envisioned.The only thing that could save this for me at this point is a massive alien invasion that rescues the monsters of the Frozen North Beyond the Wall who turn out to be the descendants of stranded aliens from a crashed spaceship thousands of years ago.  The Red God will then be revealed as an alien enemy of the stranded aliens who followed them and is trying to kill them all, take over the world, and raise humans as cattle.Seriously, while Martin is fine writer most of the time, this is too much.  Well-written if you don't give a hoot about plot, characters, or logic.  I'm done.  I'll not buy the next one.  I may skim it at the library to see if Martin has found some sort of half-resolution.  I'm betting not.
1 This series should have been three good books but ended up five OK books. Seems author spread out the books to make money, but watered down the story in doing so. Books 1,2&3 were good reads, but 4&5 were the worst books that I have read in a long time.  Wish I hadn't read them and stopped at 3.
5 I love this book and eagerly await the next oneI don't want to give any spolers.  Danny finally flies on one of her dragons though.
4 The continuation of the masterful epic by G.R.R. Martin. Best consumed after reading the proceeding books. Get the series and read it - it works much better when you're not having to wait for the next book!
5 The seller I received this from was not honest in it's condition but besides that; it's a GREAT book. If you are in love with this series books or show then of course you will love this book. I m taking my time reading it because the author likes to take his time in writing the next one of the series. Great Book!
5 Amazing book. Be careful though George R.R. Martin will kill everyone you love! George R.R. Martin does not use twitter because he killed all 140 characters!
5 Love the series, love the author, and best of all I love that I could get it on my Kindle right away with no wait.
5 The last book (5) of Game of Thrones series was hard to put down.  I enjoyed it very much. The only comment I have is the reader was left wondering what happened to some of the main characters.  With all of the story lines available  to the author I would love to see one more book to bring closure to some of these characters  we can always hope. Jim Johnson
5 So many many storylines and not enough depth!!! This was a great continuance, but when you reach the end it lol eaves you burning! A great ploy to be sure but George better get his pen in gear and finish this!
5 I hear the TV series is popular but I don't have HBO and the books are fabulous.  I think I would rather read the book than watch a movie anyway.  The plot is very complicated and character development is awesome.  I'll probably read it more than once.
1 I put off writing this review for a while.  I could not make it through this book. This book and "A Feast for Crows" have convinced me that Martin has totally lost control of the plot of this series.  There are far too many unresolved, pointless plot lines and characters.  At this point, it seems that Martin is including random thoughts into the story without any consideration of how they advance the plot.  I've given up on this series and would not recommend it to anyone.  Hard core fans will disagree, but there are far better books to read.
3 Look at most 3-star reviews and put that down as what I felt after reading Dance.  Parts of this book are amazing but most of it is dull and it does nothing to move the story forward.  Cliffhangers are fun for television shows and comics but not books that are 5+ years apart.  The first three books were amazing in every way.  They had major parts in them but still ended with you wanting more.  Nothing ended with a cliffhanger until Feast came around.  Dance is all cliffhangers and no resolutions or major events.I love GRRM and his work but Dance left me empty.  Nothing was accomplished for any of the characters.  The best stories in the book had nothing to do with everyone's beloved (Tyrion, Dany, Jon, Arya).  My favorites were Reek, Davos, Selmy, and Bran.  Unfortunately they did not get enough chapters in the book.  Mostly you get Tyrion wandering around and acting like a dope, Dany acting nothing like the Dragon she was in the first three books, and Jon Snow wandering around the Wall wondering what to do.Some of the chapters are on par with the first three novels so it is not like GRRM lost his edge.  Especially one Dany chapter and the epilogue, which really rocked.  And every Reek chapter was superb.  So I hope GRRM's Mereen knot if fully undone now and he can go back to working his magic!!
5 I'm always amazed at the fertility of this guys mind. What a great story teller. I eagerly await each new book from him.
4 I am a fan of this series. As a matter of fact, before purchasing this latest work, I re-read the entire series to get me back into the mood of the storyline. I have some points for those who find it 'boring' or 'stumbling' or 'too much'.First - GRRM has NOT changed his style. He continues to grip you with an amazing tale, granted a very long tale, that has the most amazing and in-depth character development I have ever seen. If you go back and re-read the series, you will find this DOES NOT CHANGE over the course of the story. What happens is that new characters are introduced and the tale becomes more complex.Second - If you don't want to read what is essentially and in-depth and amazingly colorful history, then don't! Sure, this is entertainment, yet it TRULY makes you think! The author is forcing you to remember and figure out that these characters are all acting independently along the timeline. The depth of the story (stories really) is truly awe-inspiring.Third - GRRM is bold enough to piss off the reader by simply making things happen. Characters die! Characters you LIKE DIE! BAD things happen that you DON'T want to happen. TOUGH! It's all a part of the story! IF you don't like that - then write your own story where everything happens exactly the way YOU want it to! I cannot even count the number of times I have said to myself "I never saw that coming!" This all feeds back into my first point! The Character development is amazing! In reality people change as they grow and experience life - these characters change in the same manner! It's truly gripping!Fourth - No, I don't find this to be a 'can't put it down page-turner' yet I found myself reading it every day. the story is gripping, the characters are amazingly human and honestly believable. They do things you don't expect, not because the author wants to piss you off, because they are very like real people!In the end, I find this series to be stunningly good. Continually. The biggest problem I have is I wish it would wrap up - I think a lot of us feel that way. Yet I will continue to read as we (hopefully) get another installment.The story did move along, many seem to feel it didn't move along enough for them, again, I say, let the art flow. If you don't like it, stop reading it. The end of the book very much sets us up for the next one and completely changes the game - again! Sometimes I think he does this just to be annoying.Hope that helps.....
3 As one who was enchanted by the first three volumes of Martin's saga, I was extremely disappointed at Book 4. But then Martin promised at the end that Book 4 was merely a setup for Book 5, which I bought with great anticipation. Historical fiction usually has the hero or heroes prevailing at the end. Apparently, Martin does not like his heroes very much because he spent nearly two books on a litany of minor characters who, frankly, I could not keep straight from one chapter to the next. Whatever happened to Bran and the suggestion he was going to prevail in the end and bring the Stark House back to prominence? Even Arya flashed great potential in the first three books, her feisty attitude and grit made you pull hard for her. I wasn't particularly fond of Sansa's whiny little character, but at least she was Lord Eddard and Lady Catelyn's little lady. So where the heck were any of them in Books 4 and 5? They had cameo appearances while a roster of bit players took center stage. Only Jon Snow received his due, but at the end of Book 5 even he was in turmoil. I've heard rumors that Martin is writing Book 6, but I will have to be convinced before I spent any more money or time when the trend is clearly disappointment.
1 I just wanted to add my one star review because this book doesn't deserve its three star rating. My wife was disgusted by the torture porn, and I was as well, not because I'm a prude but because it was too graphic and totally unnecessary. It didn't add to the story at all.GRRM has taken a page out of Robert Jordan's craft and is now turning his fans against him with endless discussion of food, finery, unnecessary descriptions of things that don't matter and pissing off the end of things.I quit the book after 200 pages, my wife quit after 150. Like others, we loved the first three books and the last two have been painful.How GRRM can repeat the mistake Robert Jordan made is beyond me.
3 This feels like a precursor to bigger events.  I enjoyed reading about my favourite characters, but it didn't feel like a whole lot happened.
5 I enjoyed this book as much as the others. Am sad to have to wait for the next one. If you liked his other books, this one will not disappoint.
1 I wish I had just read the reviews and  not bothered with the book. Many of them have somehow managed to compress 1000+ pages into 10 at the most. How is it possible that people have condensed it so much when Martin couldnt?Clearly he needs to fire his editor/s. And maybe try and care about the story just a little.It seems that almost any reviewer here could do a better job than Martins.Maybe someone could write a 200 page condensed version where our fav chacters actually live. But I have had enough of this sh**. Who could even be bothered? Thats all i'm left with now that the anger has faded. Apathy.
1 I loved Martin's first three books, but I doubt I will read another in this series. He is no Tolkien.  I don't mind a 1,000 page book if it is interesting, has a good plot, and the characters are well-developed.  However, I feel that Martin thought he was being paid by the word!  This particular book is supposed to run parallel to book four.  He admits that book four was running too long and that he split it.  Well, he should have taken one of the swords from the book to it.  It gives you the feeling that he cut all the description or stuff he didn't like in book four and threw it into book 5 as an after thought.  He keeps killing off old characters and creating new ones, as well.  This makes the book seem disjointed.I wound up skimming a great deal and forcing myself to read through to the ending.  Only a few story lines were resolved in the book.  I am really disappointed.
5 This is by far, the richest series I've ever read in the genre.  Rich in characters, rich in story line, rich in drama, and at times, rich in laughs, too!  And very rich in wit!  Kudos, George R. R. Martin!
5 I am ready for the others to be written now. I just hope I don't forget what I have read in all the other ones by the time the last ones are published.
2 At the end of listening to "A Feast for Crows" one is greeted by the author seemingly responding to the slew of readers that finished the book and were dissapointed.  He acknowledged that he left half of the main characters out in the book and would rectified this in the 5th novel "A Dance With Dragons".  Although we do get updates on some of our favorites characters (Tyrion and Daenerys) the majority of the novel watches these characters make little to no progress in their story arcs.  Although this tendency for the nobility to sit by and basically do nothing hoping that their problems will go away may be realistic, this is not something that a reader wants to read about for several hundred pages.  He promised to progress the story forward but I feel he is crushed under the weight of the dozens of subplots he has made up.  For the upcoming 6th novel he really needs to concentrate on the main characters (Tyrion and Jaime Lannister, Daenerys Tergaryen, Petyr Baelish, Stannis Baratheon, Bran Stark and John Snow) and move this novel towards some resolution.  After two novels in a row with little progress I hope that he will prove himself worthy of the comparisons to Tolkien and write as strongly as he did in the first novel.
5 A wonderful book, and only disappointing in the fact, that I must wait another few years for the next installment.
5 Love it!  Can't wait for the sequel to come out because we are cliff-hanging  here!  George R.R. Martin has an incredible imagination and the ability to put it into words in an exciting, jaw-dropping way that makes his tales so compelling they are hard to put down.  A Dance with Dragons is full of angst, warring, brutality and unexpected twists and turns throughout.  A fabulous read.  His characters are thoroughly developed and whether you love them or hate them, you will not forget them!
4 Everything disintegrates in this one.  The story is all over the place.  Still it has more big moments than book four so I'll give it four stars.
5 "Men are men and women women, no matter which side of the Wall we were born on. Good men and bad, heroes and villains, men of honor, liars, cravens, brutes...we have plenty, as do you."The scope of Martin's world increases. The breadth of his characters grows by magnitudes. And the epic expands ever outwards.This book concludes little and alludes to a lot. It's not as fulfilling in and of itself, but "Dance" propels Martin's worlds forward in large leaps.Tyrion is back, and he was sorely missed in "Feast for Crows". Jon Snow's character evolves to put on a display of strength touched on in previous books but solidified in this tome. Like his previous novels, each chapter comes from the perspective of a different character. While some we know, Martin has the audacity to introduce even more characters to his historic rainbow of interconnected plots."Dance" is as big and bold as the preceding novels. It's dark, heavy, and written with a lusciously lavish hand - like its four predecessors. I can't understand what readers don't like about this one short of the fact that it doesn't bring the stories to an end. But that's the fun, right?
1 The last two books were just flat out, plain old horrible.  After reading the previous book, (and, actually, I'd started this at the end of the that book), with this book I had gotten unbelievably bored with the series, and would read the first two pages of every chapter, and, if it didn't grip me, i'd skip to the next chapter (I love my kindle and ability to quickly do that).  You would think that this would lead me to ending up at chapters where I didn't know what was going on.  Amazingly enough, that never happened!  Apparently, NOTHING happened in this book.....
5 This book is just as great as all the others. A page turner that will keep you up reading at night.
4 Well, I am a fan too but I think except for some repetitive description of previous books, he did tried to bring the story forward, just not enough. I am worried that we are looking at another 4 to 5 books, with the current progress. And George, please stay healthy. We hope to see you finish the book.
5 This book has many surprises and makes you question why some things must happen. I guess the question who will finally take control of the Seven Kingdoms. What is the roll that the Dragon Queen truly play?
4 Well now, this book has generated some serious emotions on the love/hate Martin train. The honest truth is that you can only get worked up if you really care, and that is the whole point.Martin creates a world that the reader becomes attached to and storylines that demand resolutions. This newest installation is ponderously large and there is a feeling at times that the story is not moving forward due to the majority being parallel to the previous novel.****** YOU MUST READ THIS BOOK AS AFFC PART2 ***********Do that and you'll be super happy. No matter what anyone says... Martin write one hell of a story.
5 Wow! Great book maybe my favorite so far. like always so much suspense and intrigue! Can't wait for the next book. George r.r. Martin write, write, write!!!
5 I have just finished this after reading books 1-4.  Seems I can't stop reading these books, so addictive.  I am also waiting eagerly for TV to catch up.
5 Utterly and completely blown away by this book. The series comes roaring back to life with rich characters, amazing plot lines, vivid images, incredible twists and turns. George Martin is incredibly gifted. One of the best books I have ever read. One of the very best in the entire series. Pure genius Mr. Martin. I applaud you Ser!
4 Yes, not a lot happened, other than the plot grew denser... this story seems to be evolving in baby steps at this point.  But guess what?  I loved & thoroughly enjoyed it anyway.  Like a lot of folks, I didn't wait half a dozen years for this book... maybe that tempered my expectations, I don't know.  I started reading "A Song of Ice and Fire" last summer after learning HBO was making it into a series.  Was never a big fan of the fantasy genre, but got sucked into this series from the first few chapters of AGOT.Hope the pay off's a doozy, Mr. Martin.  With all this foreplay, it better be.  :-)
4 I'm not going to post a synopsis or anything nearing a spoiler as a lot of people have just been turned on to these books thanks to the HBO series.  If you're wondering how this book compares to the previous four in the series, it's good; just maybe not quite as good (at least early on).  This book started off slower for me than the prior installments did.  It's chocked full of details just like it's predecessors, but lacking a little in the action department as compared to the prior books.  I feel like this was done to set the scene for what's to come because the farther you get into the book, the better the story, the faster the pace, and a lot more action.  We do get some new character perspectives in A Dance With Dragons, as well as the ones that were so noticeably missing in A Feast For Crows.  Martin was smart enough to try to get at least one chapter in for all of the major characters in this one (I only noticed one that was missing entirely); probably because so many complained about the lack of certain characters in A Feast For Crows.  Are all of the questions we were left with from the previous book answered?  No, but he does at least give us a little more to go on and of course he leaves us with more cliffhangers!!!  One in particular left me a little stunned and a bit upset.  I'll be very surprised if that story line ends the way we were led to believe.  I don't think it will, but Martin has earned my respect by doing just this kind of thing, so you never know.
5 This helps to keep up with the tv show.  This is such escape and fantasy.  I just love this book.
5 I know there's a lot of complaints about the latest installment in the ASoIaF series but they are all minor. The book is superb. The writing is beautiful and just hearing about the characters feels magical.I love the book and, even though I know it won't be for years, can't wait for the next one.
3 Martin had prepared us to expect that this would be the final book in the series. This was where all those divergent story lines where drawn together. Instead what we got was a clumsy, although at times entertaining, restart. In many ways It feels as if Martin, flush with the success of the HBO series, decided that he wanted the series to go a bit further. So instead of ending the many stories he's put out there, he added new characters and put new plot lines in motion.A Dance With Dragons has everything that the other books had in terms of the quality of writing, but it I've started to wonder, when does a Song of Ice and Fire end?
2 Seriously.  I find myself skimming over the chapters to 'get to the good parts'.  That tells me I'm bored, and after waiting for this book for so long, it's simply no longer entertaining.  Dani is a waste of time, and I had such high expectations of her.  Tyrion has become the fool he so desparately isn't, and I don't give a crap about all the minor houses that seem to take up a great chunk of the pages and the story.  Jon has been the only saving grace, but I'm afraid even that's wearing thin.  This book is so sadly disappointing.  Like a party you've looked forward to for weeks and weeks, and it turns out to be a big blah.ADDED Aug 1st.  SPOILER:  REALLY?!?!?!  Jon is dead?  WTF?  Couldn't you have killed off Dani?  Cersi?  But JON?!?! Was this bastard so like his father, that it was his honor and steadfast hold on doing what's right that got him killed too?  Aaarrrggggghhhh!
3 I truly love the first three books of this series, although I'm normally not a fantasy fan. This book is just not up to the standards of the other four. Mr Martin is an accomplished and imaginative storyteller, but you wouldn't know it from this book. The numerous plot lines plod slowly but mostly uninterestingly along, seemingly not really going anywhere - or at least nowhere I cared to follow. And the endless number of very minor, minor, semi-important, possibly important, temporarily important, important, and very important characters are always difficult to keep straight without Mr. Martin's use of coy chapter titles. &#34; The Discarded Knight,&#34; &#34; The Bra-less Khaleesi,&#34; &#34; The Hirsute Lovelorn Humbert Humbert Knight&#34; ( ok, those may not be accurate) serve no purpose other than to further confuse a series already in need of its own card catalogue. The main characters veer so wildly from their previous personalities as to be almost recognizable. Tyrion, easily the most practical and thoughtful of characters, wanders sullenly about unfamiliar lands taking little or no part in his own story and contributing so little to the story that he could have been left out entirely. The normally fiery little Lolita/Madonna of Dragons has gone from a world-conqueror with her eyes fixed firmly on her stolen throne to an indecisive teenager sighing over a sellsword's gold partial and too stupid to think of putting a cushion on a bench when her butt hurts. A whole lot of nothing is going on here, and I mean a LOT - this book is massive. The worst part of all is that the general feeling I took from the book is that Martin was bored with the story and the characters and just churning out a filler to appease his editors and fans. Read the other four books, especially the first three. For this tome, I'd recommend the Cliff Notes.
5 Great read, also a long read.  I was surprised when some of my favorite characters died.  There are plenty or the original characters  still left to make the next book be very engrossing.  The switching back and forth between winter and summer locales keeps you interested in each would-be King/Queen as the game of thrones continues.  Dragons are found to be very difficult with which to dance.If you liked the other books in the series, you'll like this one too!
4 Having read the entire series, I have quite the love/hate relationship with George R.R.Martin.  I enjoy these books and many of the characters.  He is a very good storyteller.However it is his cliche to kill most of those who are good...and any cliche is a bad idea. This book is no different and also suffers somewhat from the author's lack of focus and editing.Although not as dragging as the last book, I still found myself skipping large portions of pointless text - usually descriptions of meals, landscape, clothing, etc. - to get back to what was interesting and important.NEWS FLASH: If you haven't "sold" your universe by the end of book 2, you aren't doing it right.Overall it was a solid, enjoyable read. Some parts had me literally not wanting to put my Kindle down.  If you've slogged through the entire series, you will probably enjoy this one.
5 It is really hard to be able to write this many books, so many pages each and still keep a good story going. I have read all five and it is really hard to wait for 3 more years. I'll have to keep living to finish the story!!!!!LOL
4 Like a great game of cyvasse, George R.R. Martin is yet again arranging his key players for another epic showdown in Westeros...and beyond. Sellswords, plague, dragons, OH MY! In "A Dance With Dragons", the key elements are set forth for the tensions that will be necessary to bring about further wars across the Seven Kingdoms and beyond. Martin's writing always flows beautifully, though this time around the plot is a bit slower than previous editions (think more the speed of its predecessor, "A Feast For Crows"). But that's okay: we've come to know that when it comes to George R.R. Martin, the very best explosions of chaos come to those who wait!
5 I loved these and can't wait for the next one. I need to know what happens next!  Love this series.
5 I don't usually like this kind of book. I'm a bit snooty, I guess. But someone whose taste I trust advised me to try the series, and I became hooked. Start with Book I and you'll probably go through the whole lot, though the last one, Book VI, is not out yet. And there are a lot of us waiting for it to come out. The research that Martin has done is stunning as well.
5 Enjoyed the tv series and wanted to read the book for more.  Wow!  You get more!The price was good and shipping great.
3 ... Lots of characters that don't add much to the story. I enjoy the world created, but Martin can spend whole chapters on history and origin that can be skimmed. I like the overall story and am looking forward to reading more about the game of thrones.
5 What can I say about Book 5 of ASOIAF that hasn't already been written about obsessively, ad nauseum on blogs everywhere?  This book, for me, was a 'set-up' book that may allow Book 6 to really jump off.  I'm still waiting for a book that will live up to the incredible magic that was Book 3, but that's a pretty high bar to set.  But let's face it, if you've already read over 4,000 pages you're not going to stop at Book 5.  Buy it and escape to Essos across the narrow sea!
5 This happens to be just as good as A Storm Of Swords and beats A Feast by a long mile. I'm a little upset at the negative reviews that I'm seeing and am wondering if its just that people are upset that Martin took so long to write it or that the pace needs to be faster or something along those lines. A lot of people fail to grasp that its still in the middle where things aren't lightening quick but picking up speed from the fourth book. I have to confess that I'm not completely done but am more than two thirds done and I've had to pull myself away from it so I don't finish it too fast. Anyway I highly recommend this wonderful book and can't wait till the next one comes out!
3 A little long, a bit windy, I sorted expected better, considering the time it took to write it. But it does help answer a few more questions
5 I don't remember who to thank for introducing me to the Ice and Fire series. Once I open the book, I hate to put it down. Unfortunately, I am a slow reader. Great characters, great story line. I was very surprised to love it. I usually hate mediveal settings but this one works for me. I usually hate books with too many characters because they are confusing and most authors have problems properly developing a single character much less multiple characters. How Mr. Martin keeps all these plates in the air is fascinating.
4 Do I even need to say how long it's been? A Feast for Crows was a placeholder, a holding action intended to keep the story going just a little during the decade-long creative struggle George R.R. Martin faced at the end of A Storm of Swords. It would be easy enough to set aside any objective criticism and instantly adore the book. But that's not how I am as a reader, and as grateful as I am for A Dance with Dragons, it's not as satisfying as A Storm of Swords, A Game of Thrones, or A Clash of Kings. This is not to say that it's a bad book -- anything but. It is at turns thrilling and terrifying -- a big complicated behemoth of a book full of unexpected surprises and deftly paid-off moments of plot. But there is trouble at the heart of it -- the fabled "Meereenese Knot" that Martin grappled with for so long.Before I continue, I want to note that I am going to avoid spoilers and speak in generalities. I understand that those generalities may be considered spoilers -- so read on at your own peril. But please be aware that I will not spoil specific plot twists, character reveals, etc.A Dance with Dragons is centered around three major story-lines -- Dany's rule in Meereen, as well as the many people trying to reach her; Jon's tenure as Lord Commander of the Knight's Watch on the Wall; and the north under the stewardship of the Boltons. Other characters and settings are addressed, including a few lingering threads spun out of A Feast for Crows, but Dany and Jon are by far the most critical characters in the book.The problem is that the "Meereenese Knot" isn't so much a knot, as it is a cul-de-sac. For five books now we've watched Dany develop as a queen, waiting for her to arrive on the shores of Westeros with her dragons and her army. And yet at the close of A Storm of Swords, Dany decided to stay in newly-conquered Meereen on the shores of Slaver's Bay to learn how to rule. Her arc is concerned mostly with that -- as well as the unexpected consequences of her decisions. The early chapters in the arc are some of the least interesting in the entire book, but Dany's arc begins to pick up steam in the last third of A Dance with Dragons, driven in large part by a compelling new POV character. Yet, as the book closes, I'm not sure that I'd say the knot is any looser than where it began. Only Martin knows for sure, but with so much time devoted to Dany, I'm not sure very much progress has been made.Jon's arc on the Wall also deals with the complications of rule -- the compromises leaders must make for the greater good. And as Jon makes some very difficult decisions, it's easy to wonder if he has some of his Ned Stark's weaknesses, or if he will rise above his father's mistakes. One could also say that Jon's arc has certain ... Shakespearean overtones.The Boltons are, I believe, the only true "villains" in the series -- characters so vile and evil that they are irredeemable. Yet, they are believable villains -- a family of sociopaths who pass on their predatory approach from father to son. Their story is told from a surprising POV character who I would rather not name, and I found the Bolton chapters to be especially compelling, as well as disturbing.The remaining characters and arcs in the story are probably best left unmentioned -- although they often eclipse the three major plot movements of the book and lay important pieces for books to come. I will say that I have gone from being lukewarm about Victarion Greyjoy to wanting to hop aboard a longship and follow him across the world -- the guy is an incomparable badass, reckless and bold, a true pirate lord. My old favorite Davos Seaworth is on hand for a few chapters and remains one of the most humble and truly brave and heroic characters in A Song of Ice and Fire. But my favorite POV chapters come from a completely new character -- one who shepherds in a whole series of changes into the series.Although A Dance with Dragons is a much more engaging book than A Feast for Crows, I believe many readers will find that it shares many of the unsatisfying elements that plagued its immediate predecessor. Playing pieces are shuffled into position (or out of position), but very little is resolved. This is not surprising for a series as big and ambitious as A Song of Ice and Fire, but with such a long gap between books, it can be disappointing. Unlike earlier volumes in the series, A Dance with Dragons does not tell a complete story -- it is more complete than A Feast for Crows, but only just so.Here's hoping for a shorter wait before the release of Winds of Winter.
3 It felt like George is a bit bummed out with this book and his own series.  It feels like he does not know which way it is going and he is wandering around lost in his world of Westeros.  This is not a happy time in the series.  The reality of the difficult situations the characters are in is hitting home to some of them.  The prose felt like it was forced and rushed to get to the publisher to meet a deadline.  Because of this, it felt like a formula was taking place in the book, much like a Duke's of Hazard TV show.  There will be a car chase in the first five minutes, Boss Hogg with try a new plot to get them Duke boys.  So it is in this book.  New characters will come and old and new characters will be killed off.  Yawn.  Me thinks the plot moves too slow right now.  The characters are stuck in quicksand because the author is mired in his own creation.  So yuck.  This is a read once only book unlike some of the earlier books in the series.
4 Game of thrones book dance of dragons is fifth and it shows while the story line is great the text is long winded and it shows that. The author is getting tire of telling the store. I waited till this book came out before beginning with the first book. And the title and release date had been released but the date came and went two times two years and now we have yet a new release date that will he will miss too. I feel cheated do not start reading. I want my money back
3 I have basically dedicated my spare time over the past two months to devour all five books of the Game of Thrones series and like many of the other readers, I LOVED the first three.  Number four left me with a few complaints but luckily I could jump right into Dance with Dragons.  I can understand the complaints of many of the reviewers, but I don`t agree.  This is still a fancinating world, even if the characters don`t move as I wish they would.  At some point during Dance I realized this series is truly about playing the Game of Thrones and not about winning it.  At every turn your favorite hero is struck down but then so is the most despicable villian.  We despise the Lannisters but then almost start to root for them as the previous history is revealed so covertly...but only for a moment because then they disgust you all over again with their lack of character.  And while There was never a more honorable man then Ned Stark it seems like his family will never be reunited.  And what is Jon Snow's true parentage anyway?  He is a bastard we all know, but who's bastard?  Some part of me feels he is a stark by another parent than his father and maybe Rhaegar is his father.  I love the way so many stories are going on and I will not give up on this series. I can not see where it is going next but that is how the best stories are told?  In fact, this series reminds me of LOST.  I have faith that the creater of this world will not disapoint me and even if he does, it was an entertaining ride.
5 Excellent story and intrigue! What is going to happen next is anybody's guess! Since I have to wait a year for book 6, I think I will read book 5 again!
5 I love the fire and ice series. Can't get enough. I am VERY upset that I have to wait so long for the next book.
5 These books are great, especially on the kindle. They were so easy to read I could not put them down.
4 Along with the rest of the world I am eagerly awaiting the next book!It was great to highlight some of the older characters.  Hoping for a great Arya portion next time
5 I went to bed early, well, early for me, determined to get a good night's rest.  It wasn't to be, I couldn't sleep with the almost finished A Dance with Dragons sitting in my living room.  I dozed a little and my thoughts bounced around from Bran to Jon to Tyrion and Quentyn.  I thought about what it would be like to live through a winter that lasts years instead of months, which started me thinking about the logistics of even a year long winter.  How would I and everyone around me store enough food to last through a lost growing season?  Finally, at 2am, I gave up and crept out to my living room to read.I promised myself just a chapter or two, until I started to feel drowsy and then I'd head straight back to bed.  George R. R. Martin, I can't resist you!Unlike A Feast for Crows, this marks a return of several fan favorite characters, I was most concerned with Jon Snow and his brothers in black on the wall, so, for me, practically from the start, this book is amazing!Martin doesn't keep things to himself, there is a lot of meat to this story, but there is also a ton of backstory (something I usually hate) but with Martin, his conversational style of writing keeps the reader firmly along for the ride, wherever it may take them.But, this does lead me to my first criticism, too much is just too much.  Just like last time, new characters have been added and sadly, I don't think they add a whole lot to the story.  In Feast, Davos story, in my opinion, was pretty unnecessary, in this book, I'd add Quentyn Martell, prince of Dorne.  While his story is compelling and makes for some interesting situations, I don't see it adding that much to the overall storyline or to other characters in the book, namely, Daenerys Targaryen.Which brings me to the situations that my favoritest characters are now in, which I think, mostly is best summed up by quotes from the characters themselves.Here, there be spoilers;You've been warned!Jon Snow is in a difficult position as Commander of the Night's Watch which was pretty badly decimated after a battle with Mance Rayder, the King Behind the Wall. "Just who do you imagine that you are?" Stannis Baratheon asks Jon.  "The watcher on the walls.  The sword in the darkness," he replies and this pretty much sums up the crap on a cracker that he is dealing with.  But Jon is smart and determined not to fail in this, the most important of duties and so holds his ground against anyone who'd try to stop him.  Which inevietably leads to friction and resentment, most notably with Janos Slynt.Janos Slynt - executioner and all around yuck guy is now in the Night's watch and he is clearly out to get Jon Snow, 'bastard son of the traitor Eddard Stark and an abomination.'  Well, karma is a bitch and Janos gets whats coming to him and darn if I didn't jump up and down with excitement.  He really was a nasty freak.Tyrion is more contemplative and sadly, noseless (you'll have to reread parts of the old books to find out why, I'd forgotten this bit).  Gone is the flippant schemer that we all love and in his place, Tyrion seems a bit tired, drunk (does he ever drink anything BESIDES wine?) and sad.  His murder of his father, while a memory he clearly cherishes is also a burden for him, he is the kinslayer.  Cersei has offered a bounty for his head and he is on the run without money, a first for him.  He has finally become what the people around him always saw, a useless halfman, who mutters his father's last words over and over again, 'where do whores go?Daenerys seems a bit muted.  She is a dragon queen, conquerer and yet she for most of the book, wavers over decisions almost to the point where the reader wants to jump into the book and shake her.  This is strange behavior indeed for Daenerys who has always struck me as a strong and forthright person who never hesitates and is always focused on her ultimate goal, the throne of Westeros.Oddly, after all my yearning for Jon and Dani, it's Bran's story that most captured my interest this time.  His odd little band of survivors was on a quest and every time the story switched to another character I was tempted to skip forward to read Bran again.I think a lot of people will complain that the story is too long, that not every little detail needs to be discussed and worried over,they'd be right, but then again, there was never a dull moment and I have to wonder if I'd like this series so much if Martin was a briefer writer.  Something else to think about are the volumes of characters, I had to look some up because I couldn't remember who they were, Varys, Shae, the brother and sister with Bran.  There are sooooo many people, I needed a book to keep this book straight.
3 I agree with much of the criticism that relays that by this stage of the "game" things should be picking up. There are enough characters and side plots already in this story line without introducing more. That being said, I will stick it out with this series to see where the author will take it. I am a firm believer in the idea of the creator of a story is wholly accountable and responsible for how it turns out; for good or bad. It is a product of an individual's endeavors, and we, as consumers are along for the ride. This latest book is long winded and actually boring in part, totally unlike the first 3 or 4.
5 Excellent as usual from Mr. Martin. This is one of the few kindle books I have paid full price for (14.99) and every penny was worth it! This book continues the stories of the characters we all love or love to hate. Great book.
5 Where is #6?  Can't come fast enough!  The storyline just keeps getting better and worse at the same time.  Stop killing off my favorite characters!
2 Too many characters, too many pages, too much of nothing!  The first three titles in the series were outstanding.  A combination of books four and five minus at least a half dozen characters and some serious editing would have made one good novel. One can only hope that Martin will read the negative reviews, pick up the pace of the plot and drop all the superfluous material in the next Song of Ice and Fire book.
5 This is a great book for adult men or woman that can handle rape and alot of cruelty. Other than that it is awsome in so many ways it is hard to describe, you will not want to stop reading once you start.
4 I enjoy Mr. Martin's writing but by the fifth book I am beginning to feel as though he recycles the same things over and over, just adds a host of new names and symbols.  Every mountain and every valley seems to produce a whole new crowd of names and peoples that makes his world very crowded.  He still manages to surprise and he still keeps me turning the pages.  I will definitely buy the next book in the series.
3 This book is overlong and boring. I liked the first three books (I finished the third a week before this book was published) and put off reading the fourth because I wanted to go ahead and read the fifth--I heard books 4 and 5 take place relatively at the same time, just with different characters. I eventually read (and liked) the fourth.Edit:I originally gave this one star, but I think it had more to do with me than the book. Sure, it's way too long considering not much happens. I hate spending so much time on one book. By the time I finished, I was angry. Nearly two years later, I don't hate it as much. I'm about to re-read the series. Maybe when I get to this book, I'll like it more.
4 After reading Martin's "A Feast for Crows," I wrote to a friend who also was reading the "Song of Ice and Fire" series, and suggested I might not read the next volume. I told her that when I started the series, I wondered where Martin was going. After "Crows" I wondered, "Is he going anywhere"? But, having invested a lot of time in the first four books, i decided to give "A Dance With Dragons" a try. I'm glad I did. I still don't know where Martin is going, but the journey's become more interesting.I started reading the series while HBO was advertising in advance of "A Game of Thrones." The more I read of Martin, the more I'm convinced HBO was the only choice to produce these books, with violence and sex galore. Most specifically, like HBO's "The Sopranos" and "Boardwalk Empire," Martin has no compunction about killing off major characters early and often. When I began "A Game of Thrones," I thought the story was about Ned Stark. I was wrong. Robb Stark? Wrong again. The two bastards, Jon Stark and Tyrion Lannister? Doesn't look like it. Maybe it's Anya and Bran's story. Or Daenerys. Who knows.Sometimes I think Martin's paid by the word. Not because his stories are so long, but because of the many diversions he takes - to different cities , introducing new characters, some who advance the plot, and many who don't. We get a full look at the cultures of these cities - religions, customs, dress, hairstyles, coins, favorite foods. All interesting enough, but sometimes I mentally scream, "Get on with it"!But Martin does write stirring set pieces, such as the procession of the northmen through the Wall; the release of the dragons; and Cersei's repentance. It's these large-scale scenes - and the fates of the remaining major characters - that keep me going. Who is the story about? I hope we'll eventually find out.
5 I wish I had been warned before starting this series that Martin still has two books to write yet.  I have been going crazy waiting for book 6 to be published.  I recommend waiting a few years before starting this series.
5 This book may be a little slower than the others - but the story line keeps progressing and I'm hooked.
3 Out of the Song of Ice and Fire series...this one definitely isnt the best. Its still very well written and descriptive but not catch my breath amazing like the others! Still Cant wait for book 6 though!
4 These books are amazing! So far the 3rd installment is my favorite, but I still love every single one and hope that there are many more to come!
3 Despite the widely varying opinions on the book, I think the 3 stars the reviews have settled on gets it right. All those complaints about a lack of resolution? They're dead on. Dance with Dragons is well written and enjoyable, but I did feel let down by it.It's not that I, or, I suspect, the other readers who've voiced similar complaints, expected all of our questions answered, but a book that devotes so much time to characters going to a particular location (Mereen) and talking about the cool stuff that's gonna happen when they get there, shouldn't end with those same characters still traveling and talking about what will happen when...That's why people say nothing happens in this book. It creates the expectation that Victarion Greyjoy (remember him from book 4?) will get to Mereen and encounter Daenerys. Never happens. Victarion is still sailing by the end, 959 pages later. If the first book in the series, A Game of Thrones, moved at this pace, Ned Stark would never have arrived at Kings Landing.Some of the best chapters in ADWD involve characters who get the least page time, like Arya, Bran, Sersei, and Theon. Having Bran go from an equally important character to a 3-chapter afterthought was particularly frustrating, as he actually got where he was going, and where he goes is COOL. Cersei still doesn't have her trial unfortunately, but her few scenes are compelling.There are 13 Tyrion chapters in ADWD, and for all his amusing adventures, none of it moves the plot forward significantly, and by the end he's doing the same thing he was at the beginning.John's story -- also 13 chapters -- feels even less eventful. When something finally does happen, it comes out of the blue, and it's over and done in less than half a page.The third most featured character, Daenerys, spends much of the book caught up in bureaucratic wrangling. Ugh. Hope you paid attention to all the names of the different sword companies and their leaders from ASOS. There will be a test. It's called A Dance with Dragons.HOWEVER, all these criticisms didn't put me off continuing to read the series. I still love it and I eagerly await the next installment.Although...I just watched George R. R. Martin on youtube reading an excerpt from the as-yet-unfinished 6th book. It was a Victarion chapter. He's still on his boat, doing the same sorts of things he did in the last book, talking about what he was gonna do when he gets where he's going. It didn't inspire confidence.
4 Martin has created a vast and colorful tapestry, so I don't mind conceding action for some deep-dive plot development. This would have been easier to digest if it hadn't taken 5 years to get cooked up (I'd forgotten all but the A-list characters). I just hope the remaining books come out faster and that the thousands of pages have been "worth it". I'd like to give it 0 stars for taking 5 years to write, but that wouldn't be fair to the book!
4 The book is decent, not great, lots of reviews on that point. My point - prepare yourself for someone else to finish this series in about 15 years. In 2005, when book 4 came out, the news from Martin was that he had written a monster tomb of 1600 pages that he decided to be split into 2 books. He published the first half, covering roughly half the characters, and the other half was supposed to be right behind. Well either that was a lie or the last half was garbage and had to be rewritten because it was 6 more years before the "other half" of an already written book was published. And if it was true that Martin had completed 800 pages of this book six years ago, what exactly was he doing the last six years? (Note I don't begrudge him fame, fortune, or retirement)Martin is 62 and his devotion to this work has flagged badly. He is following the Robert Jordan model of plodding books but at a glacial one-every-five-years pace. If he manages volume six in the next six years, he will be 68. Does anyone think he will finish the planned final seventh volume another six years later at 74? Of course not.So read this one or start the series fresh if you have never read any, just don't expect to read a conclusion written by GRRM. And if the Wheel of Time series is any indication--perhaps the replacement offer will at least pick up the pace.My vote - GRRM should find a successor to finish the last two volumes in short order. Give him some plot line and editorial discretion and get these last two done.
5 I have enjoyed all the books and especially this one.  I like Arya's growth toward what she is going to be and Dani's path toward gaining control/trust/respect of Dagon.  Looking forward to the next book like so many other people!
4 I've had the benefit of reading the first five books in this series over the last year or so.  I can't believe haw hard it would be to keep up with the story if you had been at it over the last decade and a half!Splitting the story in half for books four and five has been interesting, but I would have much preferred the story kept in chronological order.  I spent way to much time worrying about what was going on with the lost characters in book four, and too much effort trying to tie the timeline together in book five.  It will be comforting to have everyone back together again for book six, that is if any characters actually survive that long?This is a grand story, and an engrossing story to follow.  I hope Mr Martin doesn't keep us waiting too long for the conclusion!
5 I loved this book, it left me wanting to read more. Great writing, amazing stories. Hope the next book comes out soon
1 I'm done. Jumpy lumpy dumpy dull. All characters blur and bore me now. I give up on the series. Characters now no different from each other.As useless as the Third book in Titus Groan. Gormenghastly.
3 The first three books of "Game of Thrones" were wonderful, compelling, addictive reads.  Unfortunately, the momentum they've built up is now being lost, as the saga is now drifting into a lethargy and is quickly becoming "As the World Turns" of the fantasy genre.  There are over a thousand pages, but little ground has been covered.Seven books (and now it looks like it'll be eight) are a lot of books to devote to petty family squabbles and power plays, and Martin's promise of dark and sinister forces have yet to materialize.
4 I read review after review of this book and because of those reviews was reluctant to buy Dance of Dragons. As soon as I finished book 4 though I couldn't NOT get book 5. I'm mid-way through the book and I'm flying through it. Pieces are starting to fall into place , loose ends are coming together and the story is as engaging now as it was in book 1. Sure, new characters are introduced into an already huge cast of characters, but they're bridging the gaps between Westeros and Dany. I'm very glad I bought this book!
3 this is definitely my least favorite out of the series. well except maybe I liked it better than the last one. can't wait for the next book though. x
3 This book was slow to start for me and it took me awhile th o get into it. I know that there is another book for questions to be answered but I felt that there were too many.
4 Great reading as per the series. Good to get back to Danerys, etc. I'm just anxious for the series' COMPLETION!!
4 The plots moved along in a way they hadn't in the last book.  I still get bogged down with new characters, but I liked that he kept with a few of the main  ones.
4 I didn't like the way the last two books were split, but there were many things in this book that answered lingering questions.  My biggest problem with the book it there are still too many things left hanging and I haven't seen anything that tells when next installment will be released.
2 Great start to the final book.  Reminds readers and viewers of what has happened and provides updates in preparation for that extremely intriguing conclusion. I so look forward to that resolution of this series.
5 I'll never understand how an author can create a whole world and write thousands of pages while keeping it fresh and revealing new things all along the journey but Mr. Martin does it well.  I am looking forward to book 6 in the series.
2 I want to start off by saying that i thoroughly enjoyed the first 4 books-yes, i said 4, in the series. With that being said, I want to say that this book did not remotely feel like one of Martin's books. I think that other readers will agree with me when I say that this book did not even feel like the previous 4 novels. ADWD disappointed me in the fact that it did not even have the Martinesque feel that the previous novels had. 2.5 stars, but not deserving of the curve.
4 The unexpected twists in the plot kept my interest throughout ,and makes me want to start the next book before I read other books I have already purchased.
5 As with the first four novels this maintains an excellent style. Can't wait for the last two. The characters continue to grow and the plot thickens with every chapter. the dramatisation of this on television has added to the lure.
5 I got hooked on these books from the start and finally had to order the whole set. I finished this last book and can't wait for the next book. The price was right and the book came in in a very short time. Good quality and will order again.
4 To be concise; I love the series. I've read a lot of fantasy and Science Fiction series over the years. This isn't the best or most enjoyable. But I'm waiting on book 6 and 7 and will buy them. The writers imagination, and created world is genius. The Characters are enticing, interesting, and often complex. But; All Men Must Die. And that is the problem. Every character you love or hate dies. Once you get invested in them a knife, arrow, or axe finishes the relationship. Even bad guys you love to hate die quickly. As you sift through five thick volumns of books you feel a deep hopeless loss. I'm at the point of realizing I'm addicted, smoking more but enjoying it less. How is George Martin going to sew all the characters and sub-plots into a satisfying conclusion? He's not. He can't. Most of the plot problems will die or be killed off. This is not a fantasy series but a television series that will continue as long as the ratings and sales continue. We're watching a fantasy world called a Game of Thrones, not reading a novel, a story with plot, a satisfying adventure series. I believe George Martin has begun building more house than he can finish. If he pulls this off he is Genius. If not he was an opportunist. All Men Must Die.
4 Would of liked to see some of the characters from previous books but still it was a good read.Looking forward to the next book.
1 A few months ago when I started this series I was sure this set would be something I wanted on my bookshelves.  Game of Thrones was definitely a five star book in my opinion, but the books have been slowly deteriorating, A Feast for the Crows was decent, but A Dance with Dragons has been such a slow read.There are too many points of view, I feel detached from most of the characters because there are so many, I am also a little paranoid to get too attached to any character, I feel like the author could kill them off at any moment.Okay, now I just want to rant.  I thought all of Westeros would have had to come together by now to battle the Others or Whites or whatever the boogeyman in the north is. Is that going to be the eventual progression?  Honestly I think that with how slow the author has become about putting the books out he will be dead before anything interesting actually happens.  I mean, how many years did it take to put out this book, like 5.  I just don't want to invest more time if the next book is going to come out in another 5 years and NOTHING will happen!Did anyone else feel like George must have been hungry or eating himself as he wrote this, there seemed to be a lot of discussion about food in this book.
5 I have been reading George RR Martin since the mid-nineties, and consider A Song of Ice and Fire to be a work of genius.  That said, Dance is my least favorite of the books so far, even though I have insider info on what will happen to Jon. (Cackle.) We all know how cavalierly he kills off beloved characters, but this book was a bit over the top for me.  But of course I am waiting anxiously for the next book. . . .
1 Before reading this I thought that George R.R. Martin depending on the conclusion of the series could in fact be compared to Tolkien. After reading this George Lucas's handling of the Star Wars saga is a better comparison. In fact that comparison does a complete discredit to Lucas's handling and continual tinkering of the Star Wars saga.I purchased the kindle edition at midnight the night it was released and it has taken me this long to force my way through it. I can only take so much before I become so frustrated with his handling of the characters and saga or completely bored in his story telling that I have to give it up for a few weeks before getting the stamina to pick it up again. In the end not much happens. It is a feat in itself to write 1000 pages where nothing really happens. Characters that were interesting become trite, boring, and two dimensional. The new POV's are completely disinteresting and abruptly stop any momentum the book begins to build. After reading this I free I need to make an apology to all of the people over years I told had to read this series.What is the biggest problem with this series? It is apparent that George doesn't have any idea where it is going! If you haven't read the New Yorker article that came out about a half a year ago about George R.R. Martin and the series, do so. After reading that article, attending a talk/book release for Dance with Dragons, and considering the time line of releases it is clear he doesn't know where the story is going. My wife who hasn't read any of the books but read the article and attending the talk/book release came to the same conclusion. Consider this, in 5 years he released the first 3 books which were incredible. It then took him 10 years to release the next 2. It wasn't because he was getting them just right, it is because he has no idea what to right. He threw away about 300-400 pages from Dance and Dragons and redid it.This is evident in his POV's. George has written many primary characters into a dead end. He takes them to a location which has no more story or decides the main action should be taking place somewhere else so those other characters basically get abandoned. Where is Sam and Sansa? Jaime has 1 chapter in 1000 pages while Cersei and Arya each have 2. There is really no need for any of the new POV's George just needs to figure out his story for the remaining of the saga and make sure his characters are in the right place. George wrote about 150 pages of which are essentially the misadventures of Tyrion. He could have done it in 10 pages. It should have been, "Tyrion takes a boat to Meereen. The boat gets hit by a storm. Another ship picks up the survivors as slaves which also has Mormont on board and the both get sold outside Meereen." I just saved 140 pointless pages. What about Griff then, who cares about Griff.Midway through this book I thought that perhaps HBO by combining Feast and Dance and then using artistic freedom could perhaps salvage this saga but now being at the end I think it is hopeless. I could care less about any further books in the story nor the HBO series. If I'm HBO I'd be worried. If they attempt to follow these last 2 book no one will be watching the show by the end of the fifth season. It would take a heck of a turn around to redeem the series. At this point I'm rooting for the Others to infest all lands and kill every character.
5 I love this book.  Not as good as "A Storm of Swords" (wide and away seen as the best in the series so far) or even potentially "A Clash of Kings", but still an awesome book. The book has some high points but feels more like a set-up book than the first three books. Definitely an improvement over "A Feast for Crows" (also a set-up book, but this book does it MUCH better). Basically, the 4th and 5th books are set-up for the 6th and 7th books, but A Dance with Dragons does the set-up in a great way.I can completely understand why fans are divided over this book but still I think this book is awesome and would recommend it to anyone!
2 I was really looking forward to this book, wow was I disappointed.  Absolutely nothing was accomplished and the story remained stalled.  At this pace the rest of the story will fill another 5 books.....at least.
5 I put off reading this book for a long time as I got so sick of waiting for GRRM to crank any work out. When I finally broke down and bought this, I was reminded why I thought he was such a great author in the first place. I still sadly think he won't live to finish the series, but it's been a great ride so far!
4 I was immediately dissatisfied with the end of A Dance With Dragons. As the story ratcheted up the intensity, as events loomed ever larger on the horizon, I began to notice that there wasn't much of the book left. When it was over, it was all I could do not to scream. Six years of waiting for this? Some characters haven't been seen in ten years, and their return is like this? What is Martin doing? The Meereenese knot was this?There's more to it than that initial, visceral reaction, of course. A Song of Ice and Fire was originally envisioned as a trilogy, as most fans know, and the tail end of the saga has gotten longer and longer with time. Currently a proposed septology, which would fit well with the importance of the number seven in the world of Westeros and Essos, A Dance With Dragons signals the end of the story's transition from the blistering action of the first three books, moving the pieces into position for the home stretch. Martin mentions the fictional game "cyvasse" time and again in ADWD, and it's clear that this board game, which seems similar to chess (a hobby of Martin's, so much so that he's written at least one short story about the game), is an allegory for the story he's telling here. Hidden strategies and plotlines come to the front, and while he keeps many a mystery shrouded (with a few extra for good measure), he also continues to grow the struggle for power in Westeros. The scope of the point of view characters widens, including one old character which was fascinating to finally read the story through.The book is quite long, and for such a lengthy tome it seems like the plot doesn't always move very briskly, but the quality of the writing is generally on par with the series at large. Martin's very detailed description of the foods, architecture, and heraldry of the world of Westeros and Essos is never brief, but it also draws a complete picture of the story being told.My big issue with this book is what isn't included. It feels about 100 pages shy of a proper conclusion, because even in a story like this, told in large chunks, there should be some sense of the end of certain events with more to come. Both George and his editor have confirmed that some rather momentous events were removed from the end of the book, moved to the beginning of the Winds of Winter, and while it will certainly keep that next book moving smartly, it also leaves the end of A Dance With Dragons wanting. There's a rumbling volcano of a plot here, but the book is over right before it erupts.A large complaint within the fan community is that they had formulated their own ideas about what would happen here. While I found one character's journey to be frustrating at times to read through, with less progress than I'd hoped for by the final page, the story is Martin's to tell, not mine to forecast and then be disappointed by. It is the height of hubris to decide what one wanted to see, and then excoriate the author for not delivering on one's own personal predictions. If Martin has done one thing well with his series, it is defy the expectations of his readers, keeping them guessing and and occasionally stunned by events as they play out.I am probably the biggest fan of A Feast For Crows I know of; I loved its tour of a shattered, broken realm as seen through the eyes of the smallfolk. The story felt fairly contained and focused, even as it moseyed through Westeros. The story in A Dance With Dragons defines "sprawling", spanning the entire world Martin has created, at times going even further. It's a big beast of a book, and it doesn't really resolve much of anything, but like his many cyvasse-playing characters, Martin is just setting up the pieces for the end. This is the calm before the storm, the flash of lightning before the rumble of thunder. It lacks in payoff, but when considering the overall size of the story, it's a minor complaint.
3 I loved the first three books in Martin's series. Now in A Dance with Dragon, I feel like I'm seeing the same things over and over again. It's hard for me to get interested when a new character is introduced because I figure his or her head will be on a pike in a chapter or two.But I keep reading, which means Martin is doing something right.
2 My opinion of this book keeps wandering back and forth without really getting anywhere, like a fair number of its characters. Nevertheless, here's a road map so far--During initial readthrough: "Cannot... stay... awake. Too... many... turtles." (~3 stars)Occasionally interspersed mid-read and lingering afterward: "What the hell were those bogus plot twists? Most of this book could've been titled 'Dancing with Godot' wrt plots/characters stagnating and going retrograde, and the few apparent bits of supposed plot development came out of nowhere." (~2 stars)Developing over the next few weeks of reading fan discussion forums: "Hey, I didn't catch all those little details about dangerous dining (mushroom soup and wedding pie) and stuff like that-- that's pretty cool." (~4 stars)Drifting downward again as I struggled to actually re-read the book itself but got bogged back down in the Meereeenese quagmire: "Y'know, I don't enjoy spending time in Westeros/Essos anymore. In previous books, I thought this world was grim and backstabby, but it was grim and backstabby in an interesting way and I wanted to see how it changed the characters who managed to survive. But now I'm starting to lose interest in those characters, especially since the past two books (like Buffy season 6) have been about everyone 'learning to fail'-- which may be important and necessary life lessons, but they're not my idea of entertainment. And on reflection, I kinda resent that most of my actual enjoyment of this book had to be crowdsourced by proxy, via reading other people's pickups of the significance of otherwise throwaway lines."So if you factor in the online crowdsourcing forums, I'd be willing to average the book up to 3 stars.But my rating for the book itself remains bottomed out at two.
2 Does anyone have a clue as to where this series is going?  Martin seems to be mired in a morass of his own making.  He's going nowhere and taking an eternity to get wherever nowhere is.  The cliff-hangers are getting stale, the characters are becoming less and less engaging, and I'm at the point where I don't even care how the series ends any more.  Martin needs to do everyone a favor and wrap the whole thing up once and for all.  But from the way this series is creeping on and on and on, I have a sinking feeling the ending is going to be less of a bang than a whimper.Judy Lind
4 Despite many negative reviews, the writing is just as great as any of the other books, if not better. The problem with the book is that it does not stand alone as an independent work by any measure.  The beginning and ending are absolutely arbitrary.  There is no beginning, end, or climax.  It's like a single chapter removed from a complete work.  While all series literature must deal with this problem to some extent, SOIAF is by far the worst I've read in this respect. Making matters even worse, it will likely be years before the next book is released.  The root of all this evil is GRRM's absurdly slow progress.  He should be put on house arrest until he finishes . . . with no football.
5 Where to start...at the end of Book 3 I asked myself what happened to this person or that person and had accepted that some of my favorite characters had died...welllll, maybe, maybe not!!!  I truly enjoyed this book and, believe it or not, read it in only a week...and then I finished and said to my self what happened to this character or that character and found out that I will have to wait for a while to find out...and true to form, some of my favorite characters (appear) to have died in this one also...welll, will have to wait and see...looking forward to the next (final?) installment...
4 This book was good but not great.  Many of the characters you love have very minor rolls in this book, which was a little disappointing.  There are some very interesting changes that I'm guessing will conclude in book six.  I hope George R.R. Martin does not feel any pressure to complete book six because of the HBO series.  I would rather wait three years for a excellent book than have him rush for an average book.  I'm looking forward to book six.
5 A thrilling story which seems not to be ending soon. That's nice as we all are enjoying it very much!
4 I love George RR Martin, I think that he is an amazing and talented author, I am sad that this book is over, I feel like I have more questions than answers and I don't like how the book was ended. I hope that Mr. Martin doesn't take 10 years to release the next book.
2 This book has some good moments, but he really does need a good editor.At this point it's probably best to consider the 4th and 5th books as soap opera, not high fantasy. I detested the 4th book as it was truly boring and tedious to wade through. This one is marginally better but should have been much better.Aaaah well, you're probably best borrowing it from the library if you must read it. Don't pay full price for it.
5 Since there are supposed to be two more volumes (at least), it will be a long wait for the next one.  This one definitely starts to bring the threads together.  But, as usual, the multiple cliffhangers at the end leave one wishing for more.
1 This audio CD does not do justice at all to the story. Every man portrayed sounds like a pirate with a bad cold, and about 70 years old regardless of the age of the character.  If the voice is not an old phlegmy pirate it is the voice of a dumb cockney street urchin. Dotrice robs the female characters of all depth and meaning. I have listened to all the audio books of this series and all suffer, but this is by far the worst. A new reader for this series is badly needed.As far as the book itself, I confess I want to see this story to the end but this is way to dragged out and slow. The book plods along interspersed with important and or exciting events only rarely. Could be so much better. Perhaps I will take the HBO route instead.
2 The story itself has simply flown out of control. Martin has lost his ability to move the reader through the story. There are POV chapters which seem to be present simply for the sake of being there. Martin clearly needs an editor with the ability to tell him when he is going off on too many rabbit trails.Roy Dotrice's narration is mostly fairly terrible. When he voices almost any female character they sound like the leprechaun from old Lucky Charms commercials. Most of the character accents sound rough and bumpkinish; it's almost as if Dotrice is only capable of doing a very few voices and he's forced to stretch his limited ability over Martin's (far) too many characters.
4 Good page turner.  I enjoy the series.  I was hoping that by the time I read this book that the final book would be out.
2 I read all five books of GRRM's A Song of Ice and Fire in quick succession. I can only say that I was totally disappointed in "A Dance With Dragons." After a prologue (which at best was confusing and accomplished nothing) 71 Chapters, and an epilogue the question must be asked: "Where's the beef?" "A Dance With Dragons," really makes me wonder if GRRM's heart is really in this series anymore. Simply put, A dance With Dragons is a one thousand page epic of dull, dragging, incestuously self-referential, clich&eacute;-ridden language, soap-opera style narrative in which nothing significant reaches any kind of conclusion. Also, that I can do without the voyeuristic sex and the explicit detail of bodily functions and parts in endless details about bowel movements, Wildling penis size, peeing, frozen snot and on and on. That type of "gritty realism" detail detracts from the story for me and is not necessary.The first three books were excellent. Rich in detail and well written. Then came "A Feast for Crows." The plot bogged down and did not move forward. Not to worry said I. Robert Jordan and Terry Goodkind experience the same issues with The Wheel of Time and The Sword of Truth series before they righted their series ships. Surely GRRM would pay heed to the criticism AFFC received and pick up the plot and move it forward at a much faster pace. Unfortunately, Not only did he not pick it up, he kicked it into the basement and plot movement ground to a virtual stand-still.Jon essentially spends 13 chapters moving the Wildings south of the Wall and worrying about food only to get the Ides of March treatment from four of his Crows. Why spend that much time developing a character only to kill him off. Well maybe now we will at least be rid of Mormonts stupid raven screaming "corn, corn, corn," every other sentence. With the death of Jon Snow, GRRM has managed to kill off every character I had any feeling for. Well Catelyn is still around after her rather bazaar resurrection. So is Arya, but I have no clue what she is turning into for the Many-Faced God.Daenerys, Mother of Dragons spends her 10 chapters holed up in the cesspool city of Mereen and dithering with palace intrigues and fighting a guerilla war with the Sons of the Harpy--only she never does any fighting, just takes casualties -- for the whole bloody book, while everything falls apart around her. Well she does have several steamy bath scenes with some of her ladies...HBO ought to love them. Bold, adventurous Dany who I though was on her way to Kings Landing turned into an abusive mother who put her children (the Dragons) in chains and turned into a hand-wringing, indecisive soap opera queen.And that brings me to Tyrion who also got 10 chapters. Our friendly dwarf spends his time making cynical comments to minor characters on a boring journey in which he ends up on a sinking ship with Ser Jora who is taking him to Daenerys. In the next Tyrion chapter the slippery half-pint appears on the slave block in Mereen along with Ser Jora. Ahhh could it be that he will finally be able to ally himself with Daenerys? She could certainly use his help at intrigue. But no, the Dragon queen flits off to never never land on the back of her black dragon leaving us with several chapters of Ser Barristan agonizing over everything and nothing. He does take Daenerys husband, who is also the King of Mereen, captive. To what end we kind of never find out.Unfortunately in GRRM's world, all the good guys die only to be replaced by simpering, directionless, two dimensional, uninteresting characters that are sent on never ending journeys. If anything bad can happen to the good guys, it does. I can also do without the GREAT amount of senseless killing, rape, torture, disease, etc. that seems to dominate all of the books, but especially dominates "A Dance With Dragons.But it's not just good guys GRRM kills off. The arch villain Tywin Lannisteralso gets deep-sixed by Tyrion leaving the plot with no real antagonist of any consequence. Cersei might have filled that role had not GRRM not use her two chapters to debase her into another whiney paranoid soap queen who spends one whole chapter walking naked through Kings Landing. I guess you could make Roose Bolton into an antagonist...he and his bastard psychopathic son Ramsay make a good pair...but other than gratuitous rape, torture and mayhem they are shallow and two dimensional. So who is left? Errrrr....The line up on the Protagonist side is not much better. Daenerys is about the only major player left from Game of Thrones. Well there is Theon Greyjoy...but he has been made over into the unheroic Reek. Then there is Bran who spent his three chapters learning to talk to trees and sliding in and out of the bodies of Ravens, his direwolf and Hodor.So after five books we are left with no clear-cut protagonist or arch antagonist.  As I said earlier I don't think this series will ever be completed. If GRRM does write another book it had better be on a 2-year cycle not a 5-year cycle.In conclusion I don't like "A Dance With Dragons." It was not a good read for me. I say this in the face of a large number of reviews and critiques that rave about GRRM's A Song of Fire and Ice series being "Adult Fantasy." I can honestly say that I agree with them as the coarse language (how many degrading ways can you say vagina), numerous rape and sex scenes, the obvious pornographic BDSM of the slaver cities certainly earn a XXX rating in my opinion. It is gritty reality at its unbest, but I can already see the HBO execs drooling over it. But to me it is a complete turn-off as was the book itself.
5 Quite a writer, vivid characters, lots of war, lots of killing... character development excellent, never boring .. made into HBO series
1 Clearly George Martin is being paid by the word.What else could account for a 1000-page novel, with more emphasis on describing food, clothing, hairstyles, scenery, and the genealogy of every plant the allegedly-main characters traipse by, on their slog from nowhere (the location the plot reached at the end of A Feast for Crows) to nowhere (the plot's final resting place)?The edition of A Feast for Crows that I read (from Amazon's box set of the first four novels) included an apology for that novel's lack of focus and plot development, with a promise that A Dance with Dragons would make up for it.  Consider that promise well and truly broken.Rather than plot advancement, we get a second helping of Feast's emphasis on who wore what, the trivialities on which they pondered as the trudge through exhaustively-described scenery, and a glutton's enthusiastic recounting of every dish at every meal, what it looked, smelled and tasted like, where the ingredients came from and how they were prepared, ad infinitum.  One suspects that the author was perpetually hungry while writing--and perhaps should have scheduled his time at the typewriter _after_ his meals, instead of before them.There's also the (now-formulaic) build-up of some character's plans, his surmounting obstacle after obstacle, drawing ever-nearer to success, and then -BOOM- death from out of nowhere.  Gratuitously killing off main characters just for the shock value ceased to entertain after about book 2.I'm grateful that I hadn't spent much time waiting for the release of this book, having been introduced to the series by HBO and having read all five in quick succession.  If I were one of the unlucky early-adopters who waited for years and years to get book 4 and then book 5, I might well be organizing some sort of sit-in protest at Bantam, until they agreed to handcuff no less than two rigorous editors to the author from now until the series is completed.As it is, I am unlikely to buy any further books in the series; I'll simply wait until others have bought, read, and been disappointed by them, and then borrow their copies.
4 Martin's latest installment in his epic pulls in the reigns a little bit, taking us out of the hot mess that is Westeros (for the most part), and finally starting to stitch the eastern and western sagas together through use of traveling characters, bonds of alliegance, and revenge...  It becomes clearer and clearer that, though magic is flowing back into the world because of Danarys' children, such power is no simple thing to control, and exacts prices that individual players in this ongoing game of thrones may not be willing to pay.  At least, not by themselves.Though I would call their stories the most compelling of the lot, we hear comparatively little of either Bran or to a lesser extent Arya.  I am not sure if that means there will be more focus on them as intensely magical and pivotal characters in the future, or if they will slowly decay back into dust if and when the Targaryan queen loses one or all of her dragons.  All the focus in 'A Dance With Dragons' seems to be on characters who are striving now, traveling now, working now, on the fringes now, but for all that arguably more important due to their rangings.  Fortunately, that means Cerci Lannister is finally set to cooling her heels.  For those who have said here that one feels more softly towards her at the end, I must whole-heartedly disagree.  She deserved much worse, and more, suffering than the measly pittance meted out.  I have no problems with who she may choose to sleep with in the books, despite personal feelings at odds with incest...  But she is nasty, callous, powerhungry, and more than a little stupid about the way she politics.  Frankly, I'd like to see her thrown in a blender with old weasly lord Frey and made into dragon slurry inch by bloody inch, but Robb Stark died two books ago as meet proof that I don't get what I want here, though I'm quite happy to continue reading, anyway.I think we finally have the beginnings of the rise to peak, though, in a narrative that's already some four thousand pages long and counting, even denoument will likely take a book's worth of pandering...  But in the immediate future, there's this whole sloppy Slaver's Bay war to deal with, and with the flux galloping, much and more could easily change the whole tangent of the saga.  I just can't wait to see the dragons once more on the move, and if HBO gets its' way, we'll see the next novel soon!!!
3 It's OK but really goes nowhere.  I skimmed which is not my style.  Could really have benefited from a strong editing.Is this the first book with very coarse language or do I misremember the previous books?  Many four letter words.  More editing needed there too?
4 enjoyed it ... was looking for something different and this fit the bill  I'm always looking for genre other than what I normally read
3 I almost decided not to review "Dance" as there are already so many reviews that express my feelings about the book better than I can express them, but here goes anyway:First of all, I really hate giving this book only 3 stars.  I so much wanted to love this book and I absolutely expected to give it 5.  I was glad to dance once again with my favorite characters as well as some fascinating new ones, but the music just didn't move me that much so the dances weren't all that exciting and didn't last that long.  I've waited 5 years with such great expectations but I'm afraid this book is a bit less than I expected considering all the hype and time that preceded it.  I still consider George Martin an astonishing writer, I still find all of the characters he creates superbly interesting and their journey well worth following, but the problem, from my point of view, is there was too little journey and way too much character.  I didn't review any of the previous books but if I had, I would give the first three 10 stars each.  I was absolutely enthralled, have read them each several times and hated to put them down for such mundane activities as eating and sleeping.  Altho I've also reread "Feast" I can only give it 3 stars as I found myself skipping through some POV's and yawning or getting up to do other things in the middle of a POV.  That's one of the main reasons I have waited so eagerly for Book #5.  I assumed it would redress the imbalance of "Feast" and take the story farther down the road.I'm not going to review the meat of the book as this has been done and redone already.  As has been said, there are copious descriptions (as only Martin can conceive) of food, landscapes, palaces, clothing, furniture, traveling, etc. and I actually enjoyed them as I am constantly amazed at his creativity...but only to a point.  After 500 pages, it began to drag on me and I felt the need for the beat of the music to accelerate.  I cannot critique what Martin is doing with the scope of the story.  This is his story and only he knows where he is taking it.  I have to trust that he knows what he is doing and that it will all come together spectacularly in the end, particularly considering what a great storyteller I consider him to be.  I just hope that the next books come sooner than 5 years apart.  Some of us may not be alive to finish it if he doesn't speed up.  I also hope he finds a REALLY GOOD EDITOR who is not afraid to slash and burn...I consider the editing of this book to be woefully inadequate.  I do, however, strongly recommend reading this book if you are as much of a fan of this series as I am...you must continue on the journey.George, I haven't given up on this story...in fact, when I read the last sentence in the Epilogue I HATED to close the book and leave Westeros, so please give us more and please, please, please start the music sooner rather than later.
5 Better than Lord of the Rings, less happy than Harry Potter. I highly recommend it even though it's long its a great series and it doesn't get dull.
4 Book Five takes the characters to places I just wouldn't have expected.  I found it a little slow at times but I am eager for the next book to be published - Winter is Coming.
3 I loved the other books to this series, but this one was kind of slow. I had a hard time getting into it.
5 I have read all the previous Game of Thrones books and they are a fantastic read. Brilliant author George R R Martin look forward to more of his books
5 I was really hoping for some closure with book 5! Alas, that did not happen. Now I have to wait until Martin finishes book 6. I really enjoy reading these books, but at the close of each book there is no &#34;closure&#34;. In fact, I almost feel like there are more questions than answers. I can't help but be worried that Martin will pass away and I'll never know all the answers. Let's hope that book 6 comes out much sooner than later!
4 It was brain candy, but still an enjoyable read. I love how George R.R. Martin feels no compunction about killing off characters.
2 I start this off by saying that if anyone goes into this book thinking anything significant is going to happen in the greater scheme of the plot, then YOU KNOW NOTHING [insert name].I think anyone who has any experience with the last couple books Martin has given us pretty much gets it by now that we have morphed into a kind of soap opera where there is lots of drama but the overall story goes nowhere. Much like in General Hospital, most of the characters are transitory. They come in, they go out, they come back again, but usually never leave for good unless you are a Stark. Of the Starks, they are almost forgotten, as it has been so long, we have heard so little from them, and they have so little influence on the plot.The series has been trending towards an unending "now" and this book has been worst of all in that respect. The sheer number of characters is staggering. I almost have an adverse physical reaction every time he introduces another one. Even in a huge book like this, one hears little from many of them and nothing from more (get it? many and more?). This book also manages to capture the "long-thought-dead character appears" vibe that you get in daytime soaps.Unfortunately, also like a soap opera, there is very little action (again, worst in the series in that regard). No kidding, pulse raising moments are very few and really far between.  You had better be in this for the experience as this plot moves s-l-o-w.I was so glad to be rid of Jon Snow (assuming we are really rid of him) as his story line was absolutely glacial (no reference to the Wall intended). No kidding, a great deal of the book was dedicated to his character but aside from meaningless dialogues with a horde of other characters I could care less about, NOTHING happened.If you are ok with all this, it is not a horrible book. Many of the characters are actually engaging and the world that Martin created is still compelling. The prose is ok, but not as good as it used to be.  Lots of repeating stock phrases that were once clever, overuse of new vocabulary words (Martin must have learned "Leal" while studying for the SAT or something) and lots of bad language used in an unimaginative manner (e.g. "the queen commands you to #$%@ her" seriously?, we waited how long for this?).On the good side, Martin never fails to amaze me with his ability to express human suffering and barbaric behavior.For people who have not started plowing through this series, don't start. Stick to the HBO TV series. For those already bought in, go ahead and read the book (use the Library if you can as I doubt you will pick it up again). Just know that the farther this thing goes on the more complicated it will get and the slower it will move.Great example of an average author who had a flash of brilliance long ago and has successfully milked while drifting back into mediocraty.
2 I'm not going to say a lot here because so many others who share my opinion have already written excellent reviews. Suffice it to say, a lot happens in this book, but none of it really means anything to the story. Save your money, wait for a copy to come up at the library, or get it in paperback; after 5 1/2 years, you can wait a few more months to read this one.
5 ADWD is a great book.  The Ice and Fire series is well worth the time for those who are not easily offended.
1 I preordered the book on my kindle and hoped for the best, but was sorry I bought it. Even middle books in a series require introduction, development and conclusion, but ADWD left you with no resolution at all! People complain about "cliffhangers", but they are not even cliffhangers; plotlines just end and leave you nowhere. And what's with the title?  A Dance with Dragons? The dragons did absolutely nothing until the very end, and I certainly wouldn't call that a dance. The Meereen chapters were the worst: long exposition about people and politics I didn't give a fig about, endless inconsequential new characters, and Dany devolves from a strong queen to a dumb, lovesick teenager. Tyrion has lost his cutting wit and goes on a long, meandering river cruise getting nowhere. Everyone in the East was heading toward Dany, but no-one (except Quenton!) arrived. The best chapters were the ones in the North. If Martin had continued those plotlines until after the battle, we would have gotten a conclusion and been eager for the next stage. Too bad he has a fangirl editor; a good edit was what AFFC and ADWD really needed.
4 Some boring parts but overall pretty good.This was an enjoyable continuation of the Ice and Fire series but once again the author left virtually every major character in a precarious position. I did not mind it so much in the previous book because I could just start this one and find out what happens next.  Now I join everyone else who must wait on book six.  This is not fair to do to your readers.
5 I bought this for my wife, who read the first four books and loves this one. It's the right combination of fantasy, plausible historical setting, conflict and character development. Probably not something to keep on the shelf for future reference, so a good choice for Kindle.
1 I don't know why I persisted through these 5 books.  Words, words and more words.  Martin evidently doesn't know how to write a tale that has a beginning, a middle and an end.  He jumps from one thread to another without ever wrapping up anything.  Bah!
4 But ultimately, the ride is worth it.  I enjoyed Dance with Dragons tremendously for its writing, and for connecting various strands of plot while leaving the reader wanting more.I have one major criticism, which is that the overall plot of the series does not advance much.  There's a ton of character development here, but little in the way of plot resolution.  Minor plot points are resolved, similar to what was done in Feast, but the big, overarching questions and problems were left largely in limbo until the next book.  I am starting to doubt that Martin can finish the series in 7 books, particularly if he continues at this glacial pace of plot advancement.But did I like Dance?  Yes.  Would I recommend it?  Yes.
1 The first couple of volumes of this series were truly intriguing.  It was a little off-putting that Martin's proven creativity was a little lacking with the obvious theme for the work being the English Wars of the Roses with a map that looked suspiciously like England (including Hadrian's Wall), two contending families, Stark (York) and Lannister (Lancaster) and knights being called "ser" instead of "sir."  But he told a rousing good tale anyway.  After investing many hours reading the now five 1,000-page installments, we deserve better than people just going and going from place to place.  I know he's busy doing his HBO mini-series on this subject, but he needs to wrap this baby up before he dies on us.  I'd recommend just skipping this volume and hoping that the next one is the finale.  You won't miss much.  He definitely phoned this one in.
4 I gave this book 4 stars because the characters are great and the writing is excellent.  This book is not as good as the first three, but better then the 4th book, especially the second half when the time lines come back together.  My big complaint is that all of the characters who you read about in the beginning seem to just disappear when the timelines come back together.  Bran and Davos do not get any chapters the second half of the book.  I think spliting the 4th and 5th book the way it was done was a mistake, but at the same time I'm excited to see them correct that problem for HBO.
4 The book is great but you soon realize that you are merely getting another part to be continued so that robs some of the excitement.  However, if you've come this far in the series you can't stop now.
4 I blew through the first four in the series, but am struggling with this one. It really is just a good; I think I just overdosed on the subject.
4 I've read all of these but never viewed the TV series. A great story with interesting characters even if all the good guys keep getting killed. Dany needs to get her butt in gear, tame her dragons & win the 7 kingdoms back. Need to hurry up get a move on with the story telling before people loose interest. Too many words used to describe minor details.
3 big let down, not at all what i expected. first 3 books great last 2 not as good. its sad because story line  started great
1 I was late coming to this series and have read all five books one after another. Books 1,2 and 3 were brilliant and held so much promise. Book 4 seemed to wander around as if the author was struggling to find a coherent story to tell. Book 5 is no more than a continuance of that lack of cohesion, although the level of brutality is incomprehensively raised to a new and excessive level, and the reach-backs to explain things stated as fact in Book 4 were annoying and unnecessary. All in all, the series has lost all of its steam. It seems Martin has no idea where to take all of this next or how to end it. If there is a Book 6, I'll probably read it, though I expect no more than more disjointed and pointless minor episodes that have little or no connective tissue between them. Put simply, Martin can, and probably should, just put a fork in it, it's done.As to the HBO series, there is a Season 2 on the way, and maybe a Season 3, but I doubt it will go much beyond that. There is no cohesive story that could be dramatized in Books 4 and 5. Maybe if Martin moves quickly and manages to complete a Book 6 that actually brings an end to the ramblings, some producer might see some value in combining Books 4,5 and 6 into one final season, but I doubt it.
4 I spent more time than I should have reading one review after another. Most loved GRRM's writing but listed in graphic detail the negative aspects of his latest work. While reading this series, I've found that much of it could be loosely based on ancient and medieval history. Characters change with age or a shift in their life situations. Some children were the product of good parenting, while others could easily be the basis for a fantasy-driven version of psychotherapy. The children turn out to be the strongest and smartest of the series, those that haven't fallen to horrible deaths. Pick a ruling family from Europe during the first millennium and you'll find stories equally as horrible.GRRM doesn't sit at his desk and wait for his readers to advise on what to do with each character and how to develop each kingdom. He is a master at what he does and many authors of his caliber also write books of 850 to 1200 pages. They also take years between novels and we gladly wait for each of them. He stands far above the book-of-the-month writers. I've always found when reading fantasy or sci-fi, you have to jump in the deep end and let the writer take you to places you couldn't possibly imagine. It's like a leap of faith. In for a penny, in for a pound. I've loved the entire Ice and Fire series because even when the characters aren't your favorite and the plots seem to move a little slower, he's usually taking you to places he hasn't shown you yet, like in Feast. You get a taste of every kingdom and the lands beyond the narrow sea. It just happened to take him more than 5000 pages to get us to this point. And what a 5000 pages it was. I will agree with readers who complained about the extensive lists of people, their sigils, clothing and food. But I'm willing to swim in the deep end for a few thousand more pages, with an open mind.GRRM is the story teller, and I am in search of a fantastic diversion. After all, my time is valuable and a book-a-month author has nothing to offer me.
5 In my opinion, people who didn't enjoy this book simply aren't a fan of Martin. It seems the biggest problem is the creation of alternate story lines and focusing most of the book on what happens away from Kings Landing. That is actually what I enjoy most about Martin's books. He creates an entire world with so many intricate pieces and doesn't focus on one single small area.I have absolutely no problems with this book as a setup, and it was necessary to the overall plot of the series. I enjoyed most of the additional characters introduced in this book and Martin created some good cliffhangers for the Winds of Winter. After A Game of Thrones, this may be my favorite of the series.
3 Books 4 and 5 of this series became somewhat tedious reading, this being Book 5 (as indicated by the author, books 4 and 5 was originally one book but divided into two due to its length).  George R. R. Martin strayed a little too far from the original characters, fleshing out peripheral characters introduced in books 1 through 3.  In doing so he made the story difficult to follow and quite honestly not all that entertaining.  The portions of the books that pay attention to the remaining Starks, the Lannisters and the Dragon Queen are interesting but the others should have remained in the background.  I really enjoy his unpredictability with what happens to the characters but he leaves the development of those stories for far too long, making it extremely difficult to remember what was happening to them when last heard from. Martin's efforts to create this magical world became far too ambitious with a disappointing result. I am still looking forward to future books but hope he returns to the formula that made books 1 through 3 so successful.
4 Loved the series, hated the ending.  Because it will take at lrast three more books to resolve it all.  Damn you, George.
4 I got this book for my wife (who is reading the whole series).  While she liked this book, she felt it was more drawn out, and less interesting than others in the series.
5 again a great books that should be at school lib. Waiting for more books in series. Missed the tv series the first time will not next time
5 Really a good book as long as you read the series.  If you read only this book you will miss a lot.
5 great addition to an awesome series. it is a very long read but well worth it. if you like the series its a must have
3 I enjoyed the first three books, but in this book the series has become three parts sadism to one part plot advancement. And even that plot advancement has become a Willy Wonka like two steps forward, one step back. Martin has allowed his backstory to swallow the momentum he'd built up so successfully in the early books. The cliffhanger at the end of each chapter has grown stale, and when dead characters don't stay dead, the suspense is muted. Martin likes to tease his readers, bringing major characters in close proximity of one another and then yanking them apart with at best minimal interaction.This has started to feel like a shaggy dog story, and as such, I'm beginning to lose interest.
3 I read a lot.  I read a lot of fiction, non fiction, classics, literature, manuals, blah, blah, blah.  I own thousands of books.  when i was younger I would read a book through no matter how bad, as I have gotten older and had more demands on my time, I've realised the folly in this so gladly toss aside a book that is worthless and shun authors who have disappointed me too often.I might read Winds of Winter if it comes out and if I have not decided to read something else at the time.  I enjoyed a Game a Thrones and a Clash of Kings and a Storm of Swords.  I slogged through Feast but could not re-read it.  I struggled through Dance and will not waste time re-reading it.  I could give a synopsis of this 959 page book in less than 5000 words and none of them would be used describing the menu or the wine or the beer.This series suffers from the lack of a decent editor who would look at the pages and cut them by 75% and tell Martin to tighten things up, to get to the story, to dispense with tricks and cliff hangers and, again, get to the story.Feast showed us the story had gotten away from Martin.  Dance shows us he is still not sure what to do, where to go, how to proceed.  Both Feast and Dance could have been combined, as was originally planned, into one book and that book could have been less than 500 pages and we would have cried out for more rather than plodding through a tired replay of feasts and argument and schemes we've seen many too many times before.A good editor would have kept Martin focused on the story but editors lose the spine when an author becomes popular and they let any old POS get published as long as there is a ready audience to snap it up and cry for more.I came to the series late.  I got Game and Clash for $4 as single book.  I bought Storm for $6ish, I believe I paid $12ish for Feast and I pro-ordered Dance for around $15.  My initial $10 investment was sound.  My later $27 was not.Others have said, nothing happens in this book.  I disagree.  We get about 100 pages of story.  The problem is that there are 959 pages in the book and teasing the story from these pages is tiresome work.
1 So, like most here, I'm a big GRRM fan.  We all loved books 1-3.  Feast left us a little... disenchanted.  But we told ourselves, "hey, no worries.  It's just a buildup to major events in book 5!  Martin is way too good of a writer to put us through that dreadful slump that many epic fantasy series go through once they extend past a trilogy".  And then we read Dance.  Hachi machi...  Allow me to tantalize you with a few highlights (mild SPOILER alert)- Jon and the Wall:  Gotta love Jon right?  The classic underdog, now assuming his rightful role as a leader and a hero.  He must have a compelling story to tell in this book. Right?  Wrongo.  Consider the Wall.  It's a fantasy writer's dream.  You've got a hoard of mysterious Wildings to work with.  You've got giants.  Skinchangers.  Mammoths, dire wolves, giant boars.  You've got an enigmatic red sorceress now.  Greenseers and three-eyed crows.  Real honest-to-goodness magic!  Dudes who love talking about how big their members are.  And to top it all off, you've got an army of frozen freaking zombies coming!  What does it all add up to?  The most boring location in the book, that's what.  How?  Because not a damn thing happens.  Jon dicks around chapter after chapter, accomplishing in 10 chapters what could've been covered in 2.  Labored reading doesn't begin to cover it.  Worst chapter:  Jon stands around for 15 or so pages and watches 3000 wilding walk past him.  That's it.  Compelling stuff.- Dany: How do you covert one of the most popular characters in the series into one the reader can't stand?  Simple.  Turn her into a whining, simpering girl who can barely decide what clothes to put on in the morning.  Yes, we get that she's still a young girl who is inexperienced (to some extent) with leadership.  But come on... She's commanded a hoard of bloodthirsty barbarian warriors, owns and controls THREE fire breathing dragons, has conquered at least 2 cities, is apparently impervious to fire yet still easy on the eyes, has the blood of ancient royalty running through her veins, and earned the loyalty of thousands of people who barely know her.  I think that gives her enough confidence to not turn into a love stricken teenager for some tool of a mercenary captain, and instead get on with her war.  Worst chapter:  Dany walks through fields and fields of grass, eating berries and getting bit by ants while she thinks.  Her concluding chapter, by the way.  Awesome reading.- Arya's chapters: Unreadable.  I don't care about her training.  It's so damn boring I can't stand it.  Get her the hell out of there and back to Westeros pronto, comprende?- Unnecessary tertiary characters: Enough already.  Focus on the characters you have.  They're good, work with them.  Maybe add one or two.  But I really don't need to read about 10 more random lords or forgotten sons.  Get on with it.- Repeated terminology:  GRRM is somewhat guilty of this throughout the series, but cranks it up a notch in Dance.  Did he get a dictionary of obscure medieval terms and just fall in love with a few?  If I have to read about "nightsoil" or "leal servants" anymore, I might just declare this book "as useless as nipples on a breastplate".  I mean, I know "words are wind", and "if I look behind I'm lost", but how many words can you rhyme with Reek?  Maybe I'm just being a being a "butt boy" here.- And of course, the plodding pace.  Yikes.  I thought Ice and Fire would escape this, but it's falling into the same trap as so many fantasy series - Wheel of Time comes to mind - where the pace slows considerably, more and more characters are added, and you become less enthusiastic with each book.  Even in the worst of Wheel of Time books (and they were freaking bad, don't let anyone fool you), there was always some kind of payoff in the end: a big battle, a major magical undertaking... something.  Here we get... squat.  Maybe it's juvenile to expect some action scenes in the book, and if so then I'm certainly guilty, but damn did this lack the balls of the first 3 books.  Deepwood Motte?  That's the best battle scene you can give me?  Inexcusable.  It hasn't quite reached Jordanian level, where an entire chapter can be consumed with 3 women arguing over dresses and the type of tea to feed a pregnant woman... but it's pretty damn close.To be fair, parts were still interesting.  I kind of liked Reek.  Tyrion is amusing as always.  But when Cersei's chapters are more interesting than Jon or Dany's combined, something has gone awry in Westeros.
1 I loved the first three books, but four and five are basically 2000 pages of nothing.  It is clear that Martin is milking the story and has absically abandonded anything resembling a plot now that he can start collecting HBO royalities and stretch this out as long as possible.  The books read like a soap opera and moves just about as fast.  To be honest there are about 400 pages of intersting, well written, story telling embedded in the almost 2000 pages of books four and five.  Good luck inding them.
2 I mean really, do we need an explicit sex scene or reference every other chapter?  George's writing has deteriorated to a bizarre medieval sex fantasy.  There is more carnal knowledge in the work than in his entire forst several books combined!  The story line takes place concurrently with the previous work.  We trace Tyrion at first through the expanded eastern lands on a journey to connect with the Dragon Queen.  After several bizarre hand offs, we are left to find him playing a stooge in front of the conquered city of Meereen.  The chapters are tightly written and the internal dialogue of characters is solid.  Theon Greyjoy, Jon Snow and Tyrion are particulalry well fleshed out.  The problem is that Martin seems to turn to extreme profanity, sexual predation and abusive circumstances in his scenes.  This becomes almost ridiculous throughout the book.  A perfect example is the scene in which Ramsay Bolton confronts his new bride in the presnce of the captured and beaten Greyjoy.  Suffice to say that the descriptive natur eof that scene is wholly unnecessary to the plot, establishing Greyjoy's subservience, Jeyne's victimization or the sheer insanity of Bolton.  I am certain this is Mrtin's way of getting the next miniseries installment onto the Playboy channel instead of HBO.
3 The book was interesting...but like book 4 the story ends abruptly. It is starting to be a joke...if I have to wait 5 years for another half baked story I am going to put the series out if mind until it is completed. Hopefully Martin doesn't drop dead before he decides to finish...like Jordan.  Don't get me wrong I love both authors...they just set the bar high so they are judged harshly.
4 The saving grace for this book is that it returns to some of our favorite viewpoint characters: Jon, Dany, Tyrion etc. There is a lot more action to the plot of this installment, and the reader can feel the stage being set for a grand finale (which is allegedly occurring over the next two novels, set to be released sometime before the armageddon).There are a few issues with this book, which I've come to expect from the series. The first relates to Martin's epilogue from book four in which he explains that A Dance with Dragons will go back and tell the story of other characters during the events of A Feast for Crows. The issue is simple: this is not true. Chronologically, this book catches up with its predecessor only about one third of the way through, leaving the reader confused about the order of events in the two books.Martin continues with the irritating addition of trivial viewpoint characters. Without revealing any spoilers, the biggest failure of this book is its refusal to deal with integral action. There are a few happenings that are built up to be major events, and when they actually occur the reader is instantly disappointed with their anticlimactic treatment.Overall, this novel is worth the read for entertainment's sake, and (if you're like me) you are already hooked on the series anticipating the finale. However, if you were hoping (also like me) that Martin's writing took a turn for the better at this point in the series, it didn't.
4 I had read a few reviews of this book before I started and expected much worse, but was surprised when I got caught up in it in the end. Do not get me wrong, this is no where near as enthralling as "Storm of Swords" but in the end I couldn't put it down.Once you get past the first half of the book, which runs the same timeline as "Feast for Crows", New information and old friends 're appear. A few un expected twists at the end leaves me waiting, impatiently, for "Winds of Winter".Bottom line is, if you have read the other 4 books, you may as well read them all.
5 Martin is simply an incredible author. This story just keeps getting better and better and i cant wait to read more.
5 I thoughtA Feast for Crows: A Song of Ice and Fire: Book Four (Martin, George Rr)was somewhat disappointing. And, after making fans wait so long for book five, I was concerned that Martin was losing steam. I am so happy to have been wrong. This book was my favorite in the series so far.I couldn't disagree more with the reviewers who complain that Martin spent too long building up to things that never happened. I thought that Martin did an incredible job of building suspense in this book. Some of the story lines had great climaxes in this book; others are set up perfectly for a hugely eventful book six.I was also very impressed by Martin's ability to introduce new characters and plot lines that quickly drew me in. In the earlier books, I frequently found that some chapters were much more engaging than others. But in A Dance with Dragons, I never had that feeling of wanting to get through a chapter so that I could get to a more interesting one.I will admit that Tyrion's story (which was always one of my favorites in the other books) is a bit disappointing in this one. At first, I was also a bit let down by Daenerys's story, but as I kept reading I realized that the earlier chapters were the perfect setup for the end of the book.I don't think I've ever felt as engaged in a story as I was reading this book. I felt sad to have finished it, and I cannot wait for book six.
5 I love the whole series of A Game of Thrones.  It is entertaining right through!!  Be careful when purchasing as the same book can have different titles!!  Keeps you interested throughout and is not predictable!!  Lots of interesting twists and turns. Love it!!
3 I admit have not read this book. I was already dragged into the same situation by the author Robert Jordan and vowed not to be dupped again.  I DID read the first three books in this series, as recommended by my brother, and only started it when I was told in no uncertain terms that the author promised to keep it to three books (or was it four?).  Anyway, I had no intention of chasing another mirage of a story never ending in my lifetime (or the authors). Robert Jordan's first 5 books, I believe, are genius, but then something happened. The scent of money? Who knows! I wish George R.R. Martin luck with his storylines but, if these reviews are any indication, I will not be touching them anytime soon...
5 This book is amazing. It takes simultaneously as book 4, but the much loved characters that we were missing (::ahem:: TYRION, DANY) are fully covered here. So it's much more enjoyable and really makes us want another damn book already George! The show is catching up quickly!!
3 Like so many other fans, I've waited a grand total of 5 and a half years to read this book.While there are many theories as to why it took Martin this long to pump out this sequel, the fact of the matter is that this book weighs in at over 1000 pages, exceeding even the massive A Storm of Swords. This many pages dedicated to A Song of Ice and Fire should be a boon to any hardcore fan of the books, in theory. But did it deliver?I've got a somewhat simple rule when it comes to novels... the longer it is, the better I expect the book to be. In a world where an author demands this much of my time, their story had best be worth it, because there are always other books worth reading out there. The first four books, in my opinion, were all well worth the time. Did this one follow suit?The good news:+ Martin still meets his high standards for level of detail, and his world breathes as strongly as it ever did. In retrospect, I wish I would have brushed up on the happenings of the first four books again before tackling this one. 6 years is a long time to have to remember every nuanced character and noble family crest and lineage, and who fathered what bastard, etc. But it's all well worth it. More backstory on many, many characters, and we even get more slices of history, such as parts involving Robert's Rebellion (Honestly, if Martin had the time and inclination, I'd love to see a novel on this part of Westeros history).+ If your favorite character was missing from A Feast for Crows, they got center stage here. Tyrion is a personal favorite of mine, and he helped carry this book for me, even if his character arc in this particular novel was well below the standards for Storm of Swords (Though to be honest, that is a hard act to follow). Daenarys also plays a major role (Well, the title sort of makes that obvious, I suppose).The bad news:- The POV character selection in this book is, by and large, about as organized as a ten year old's closet. As Martin himself states in the foreword (I only mention this to make it obvious I'm not spoiling much, if anything), some characters from Crows do pop up later in the novel. And they do. But each of them only gets one or two chapters, where not too much actually happens. Honestly, I'd have much preferred if he had left these snippets out and simply added them to the next book, rather than giving us tiny updates on characters that don't even really address anything that happened from Crows, with one exception. But, having read the ending, I can understand why he felt compelled to include what feels literally like a tiny slice of the next book.And then, he brings in 3 new POV characters. As if he didn't have enough already. I understand the need for one of them later in the book, but another one only gets one chapter. I didn't get a chance to feel like it built any continuity with them, and when that happens, they feel unnecessary.- Not too much actually happens in this novel. It's brutal, but the truth. Oh sure, some characters are left in peril, and others meet unfortunate ends. If you're a fan of this series, you already knew this was going to happen. But Martin spends almost all of those 1000 pages hyping three major conflicts, and where does the book end? Right before we learn what happens in any of them. I've heard stories of how Martin has struggled more and more to wrestle this story of his into prose, and I'm inclined to believe it. I know he's a big time veteran author with his own hit HBO series now, but the fact of the matter is that he needs an editor to help him pace his story if he really desires a return to the quality of his previous books.Bottom line: Was it worth it? Yes and no.Yes, because it's more A Song of Ice and Fire, and because this book sets up The Winds of Winter to be one of the most exciting books in the series.No, because this book feels like nothing but filler and cliffhangers, when it should be able to stand on its own merit.I can only hope this dip in quality can be rectified in the next book, and even more importantly, that I won't have to wait another 6 years to find out.
3 first, wanna say i'm an old hat to the series. but i don't know where it's going or how it can resolve all the loose bits. the ending will make you want to give up on the series. i can't recommend this until we see how it resolves. GRRM wrote an excellent world, fun characters you're invested in and a big convoluted plot. before this book. series went off the rails at a feast for crows. i used to tell everyone who could read to read these books. but not since the last two.
3 I dearly love epic fantasy. But. After slogging through some of the mire of words, endless words, and plot threads and new characters (who are these people?) this eagerly-waited-for edition disgorged, I started getting impatient, and hopping through the book, forlornly searching for any crumbs about the characters I had come to care about. The more I tried to read, the more I was forcibly reminded of the frequently hysterical remarks posted at Amazon about the later works of Robert Jordan (people mess with their hair, and walk around, and think about stuff, and nothing happens!)Well, stuff happens in DWD, most of it swathed in meandering plot lines that go here and there. Every now and then I was able to extract an entertaining nugget, but mostly I was bored, or irritated. I think this is Martin's revenge on all of us who fell in love with this series and harassed him to finish the book, George.  And yes, it's dark, and just plain lurid in parts, with little relief.  Reminds me of a 60 Minutes episode on a modern art, where a line of urinals and a pile of candy was considered "art". Or the painting that said "RAT, RAT, RAT" that sold for $30,000, I think. Too bad Martin IS a terrific writer, too bad I'll shell out for the next installment because I can't stand not to.  Rats, rats, rats.  It breaks my heart because I, like so many others, had waited for this volume for so long.I give it 3 stars because even this bloated meandering mass of spaghetti is better written than most of the fantasy out there - kudos to anyone who can read this word by word, but I thought James Joyce pulled a fast one on everyone, too.
5 I would recommend this book to anyone who loves the dragon world.  The book was very inciting and left you wondering what next. Very good book.
5 An amazing. Tale of greed lust fire and desire with dashes of duty drive the story forward. As powerful and blinding as contemporary politics suck as Nixon's downfall, travel gate, Clinton's legacy, and Obama's failure to restore propriety, along with our current political system of lobbyists and bitter wars and genocides all taking place right now on our planet. I don't believe the intrigue and plots can get any better!
5 All of George Martin's books I have purchased for my grandsons, notfor myself....and they love them.  They were delivered exactily aspromised and I was most happy to give them books that very muchenjoy
2 Thought I would never get through this book but kept at it expecting some answers only to discover there are 2 more books. I think I'm done.
5 Read the other four first, and this one is more of a great thing! One note - it is parallel in time to book four.
3 I wish George would write faster ... my biggest complaints is that he takes way too long between books, and even within books we sometimes go hundreds of pages to pick up a storyline again.
4 It took me five books to figure this out, but now I get it. In GRRM's bio he has some screenwriting credits. Duh! He's a screenwriter! These are not novels, they are scripts, complete with everything everybody involved in the production needs to know - all the costumes, sets, props, extras, set dressing, lighting, atmospherics, score, dialogue,... He's just making sure the producers get it all right. (It'd be like Michelangelo writing in all the little numbers on the Sistine Chapel ceiling so his assistants could put the paint in all the right places!) You can see how that has evolved over the years/books. By the last two books he's figured out that if you make the production lavish enough, you don't need so much story. Curiosity may compel me to read #6, if it is published before I change channels.
3 The first three books in this series were five star, but books four and five were very disjointed, hard to keep track of, and left me very confused (and not looking for more).Five just seemed like the author was in a rush to finish the story line. (which was not done) at least that is my perception.
5 I've given it five stars because it is easy to see the amount of work that went into it.  I'd recommend this book to anyone into the fantasy genre. Logic might dictate that fans of the show would love the books, but I've known more than one fan who can't be bothered to read.I can't wait for the next one!
3 Not to pile on, but this is 3-stars, and 3 primarily because I am so invested in the characters off the credit of the first three books that I still cared what happened to them. Love the series. Tolerated the fourth book. I would argue this was even worse than the fourth. The criticism of the fourth, besides little advancement of the primary plot, was it focused on the characters we didn't care as much about. True. But I did come around to caring a bit. This book does the opposite - it actually made me care less about some of my favorite characters. It is sad the way he diminishes Dany's story. Or the way he spends most of the book showing what a strong leader Jon is only to have him act illogically near the end. Or the way Tyrion does almost nothing at all except loath in self-pity. Only when he starts negotiating for himself at the end does he show any spark of his old self at all and it is but a few pages.In its defense, each book seems to introduce a new societal consequence to highlight. The fourth focused on the reemergence of religion in the chaos and leadership void. This one on the unintended consequences of disrupting the slave trade and societal order. I'm glad he finds room for these expansion themes amidst the plotting and characters.  He is still a good written and overall amazing "world builder."  But he's definitely lost momentum and gotten bogged down. He needed a strong editor as a full and empowered partner and clearly didn't have that influence.At this point there is no way all the characters and sub-plots he has introduced will have satisfying full arcs.  It's one thing to complicate a story and another to burden it with a thousand points of light. He'll need to start abruptly killing characters off without real purpose in mass.  It is the "Lost" equivalent of having a hundred Walts - `hey, look the kid is special, oh wait, never mind, we decided to go a different way so we'll just send him home...'
3 the chapters about tyrion, bran and reek were wonderful.  those chapters alone were worth the price of the book.too bad the remaining chapters were coma-inducing-slow.  and repetitive.  and slow.  and repetitive.  if the phrase you know nothing, jon snow appears in book 6, i'm giving up on the series.
1 I decided not to read this because of the reviews.The 5 star reviews didn't make me want to read it.The 1 star reviews convinced me that I wouldn't enjoy it.I read the first 4 books, and #4 even though it was readable, was not a page turn-er.My advice? Read the summaries of what happens, then find some other author to read.
1 By this book I'm skimming most of it because it's more description description description - for a tv series to make sure the set and costumes look perfect??? Good grief.  There may be closure with some of the stories somewhere but I give up and I'm very sorry I paid for all five books - too bad - book one was great but this has become silly and silly me for not realizing it by book three.
1 What happened to Bran? Rickon? Sansa? Arya is a cutthroat child living across the narrow sea? Daenarys just flies off on a dragon?I don't see how you could say that this book was three bitches and a bastard after prattling on and on about nothing and leaving your readers hanging.I won't be fooled by you again!
4 While being another solid entry in this series its not my favorite.  Some of the dramas, especially the dragon lady's, are starting to get a bit tired with how long they are dragging on and how the characters continue to make the same mistakes constantly.  That being said there are some good chunks of high adventure, great plot thickenings all over, and exciting answers are provided along with the inevitable MORE questions that make you really hate how long these books take to release.  If you are a fan of the series this is totally worth buying.
4 This book is very good and fast developing. After the disaster that, in my opinion, was a Feast for Crows this was an excelent read. It is not so good as A Game of Thrones or a Storm of Swords. Nonetheless, here the characters do things you never expected, but that make total sense, as opposite of the previous one which was very predictable in my opinion.To sum up I think you will enjoy this book, although it will make you curse Martin for making you wait until his next book
5 can't wait for the next book!  Write faster!  I'll watch the TV show since it fairly accurate to the books.
5 This whole series &#34;A Song of Ice and Fire&#34; is one of my all time favorites!  For people who love fantasy and adventure.  I love generational books.
5 Book five still leaves you hanging in suspense with pretty much all characters in the story.  You still want more and more.  Can't wait for number six.
3 I am only 65% through the book.  I've read all the previous books, so I'm taking my time with this one.  The time line is supposed to be the same as the previous books but written from different characters' points of view - But I've just read chapters from Jaime Lannister and Arya Stark, so that time line is still being expanded. Some characters seem to die in one book, only to find out that they have managed to survive - which is fine by me, because I don't want all the not-so-terrible characters to die quiet yet!Since this is such a long book (over 1,000 pages?) I bought a Kindle edition, when I purchased it the Amazon message said something about being able to download it to more than one device.  I did not do it at that moment and when I tried to figure out how that could be done - I wasn't able to find it. I would have liked to put a copy on my desk-top at work, as well as on my Kindle.
5 Goes with the Series A Song of Ice and Fire series.  George R.R. Martin is at his best.  I recommend it.
3 It took me much longer to read this volume than previous books. I felt too many new characters were introduced, so I often had to go back a few pages to re-read sections. I love the main story line so hung in there too finish it. I will of course wait with great anticipation for the next book hoping for some clarification on who is who and what bigger role these new characters might play in the scheme of things. OVERALL I'm glad I read it.
5 Too much violence and sexual violence--that being said--I could not out it down.  Cannot wait for the next book. May read again.
3 Ok..I wrote a previous review on ADWD the second I finished the book, that was a mistake. The hype, years waiting for it plus the HBO thing made me praise this book way too much for what really is.....a rushed and UNFINISHED book.Yep....I guess Mr. Martin (who is a GENIUS and I cannot thank him enough for these wonderful books) it's paying more attention to TV land that his own books.I'm not sure where, when or how A Dance With Dragons was written, but you can tell after reading the thing a couple of times (3 times for me) that it's simply not finished. It's hacked...I can even make a picture on my mind...Mr. Martin trying to get the book out of his way to focus on the TV Series...and that IS A HUGE MYSTAKE.Now, I personally would have preferred to wait another 2 years for this particular book...It could have been a masterpiece...now it is what it is.....PD. I guess a little part to blame is on us...the fans...for pressuring authors to pop out books as fast food nation burgers...simply cannot happen.My 2 cents.
1 Briefly...sorely disappointed in this. Maybe I lost interest over the long years in-between, but I SO looked forward to it based on the previous books, and sad to say this one was returned after trying t slog through just 150 pages! No more fantasy series for me, because this book proved they never know when to end. What a grave disappointment.
3 There were parts of this book that seemed to really drag but others that were really good. I enjoyed it but felt like my favorite characters were disappearing when I had hoped they would endure to the last book.
4 I am not fond of the way the books are laid out or the prose is written. In fact I am almost through them a second time.  I didn't remember much about each book. I had read. There are so many characters - each chapter is from several characters points of view. No tie ins from character to character.  Very hard to remember. The timelines don't follow in any sort of continuity or .  straight line.  First time I have seen any type of story written like this. Very cumbersome. I tried to read the Books my Granddaughter recommended.  They are also fantasy and the format is the same. It is difficult to keep track of what people are doing. In fact, The author does write good scenes.  He has the ability to write memorable prose. With a cast of thousands I don't know how else he could have preserved a straight out story.  Too bad because the scope of the thing is massive - I remember the Classics read as a girl but these books are difficult, to follow. And difficult to remember. No frame of reference. Perhaps all fantasy is presented this way? . Some of the lovely scenes are lost because of the technique used... I have no idea what the author could have done?.  I am amazed he kept his sanity writing about all these characters.  Better for transition into movie scripts.. Perhaps having the prose as a screenplay was for this reason. After all, the man is a multimillionaire now.  Can't argue with that can we? .Love the TV series.
4 I actually liked A Dance with Dragons more than any since A Game of Thrones. Finally, I've learned to ignore the many knights, crows, guards, etc., who have little to do with the main plot and concentrate on the main characters. Yes, the book hasn't moved very far along, but this wasn't expected with 7 books planned. I found myself rooting for characters to succeed and shocked at the fate of several. There are quite a few cliffhangers in this book, with some resolved several chapters later and some awaiting their fate in the next novel.I started this series back in November and have read all five in the months since. As in the case of any series, it's difficult to wait for the next book. However, there are good summaries online that help refresh and also an app for Game of Thrones with maps, places, and characters. I also plan to watch the DVD of the HBO series when it comes out.
4 I thought I would never finish reading this book, and I would not have either if it wasn't for the fact that I needed to return it. Book five is a great read, but the series continues to just be wordy (go on and on and on). This book did not have Sansa in it at all, only three chapters with Cersei, and Arya in it. The characters came into the novel towards the end of the book. Bran has about five chapters before his character all together disappears from the novel about a third into the book ( I guess we will read more about him in the next wordy novel.  Many of the chapters consisted of several new characters that in my opinion could have been left out.  In book five, Jon, Tyrion, and Dany make up most of the chapters. In the end another of my favorite characters dies (the Starks don't favor well in this series).
5 If you're anything like me you suffered through A Feast for Crows just DYING for a few chapters dedicated to all of your favorite characters. Well, for all that AFfC lacked, A Dance with Dragons has in its possession. You'll find this book studded with chapters for Tyrion, Dany, Jon Snow, Jaime Lannister, and even a few special new perspectives of longtime secondary characters. If you've come this far in your journey through the song of fire and ice, you'd best carry on. But be wary, fellow journeyman, for the night (like this book) is dark and full of terrors.
1 I'm giving this one star because after waiting years for the story to pick up again.  This book was more disappointing than the last.  It didn't go anywhere.  In the end we're basically where were with these dragons before the book.  It was more plots more characters, boring, slow, and hard to finish.Hard to finish is the least horrible thing I can say.  I bought this book on pre order years ago.  So I got it as soon as it came out.  I just finished it yesterday.  I've read at least a dozen books since starting this book.  I finally resolved to finish it, and with that decided that this series is done for me.
5 There have been many mixed reviews on this book, but my Thanks goes to its author:  It was a long wait, but well worth it.
2 I was an avid fan of the first 3 George R R Martin books in this series and I anxiously awaited this last one to come out, especially since it took around 6 years to write. I was horribly disappointed by this book and I honestly could not finish it.The sad truth is is that this book could have been about 300 pages and still accomplished the amount of story told in this book. Nothing actually happens. Although a large amount of time passes in this book it seems like none of the main characters actually get anywhere or accomplish anything. In fact, most of the book is about people just sitting around and talking, their is a chapter were a character is sitting in a room talking and only 1 sentence said in the course of 15 pages is relevant and actually forwards the plot any at all. At times I would start a chapter and wonder if I should just skim it because I wondered if it would be relevant or another character simply walking around and talking about his or her day. Their is also very little action in this book, maybe 1 fight that lasts half a chapter, which also hurts this book tremendously as the previous once were a non stop thrill ride.I wanted to like this book, I truly did. The fact that nothing happens and that I don't feel like I have enriched myself or the story ANY makes me realize what a tremendous waste of time it was to read this book. I pray that his last 2 books liven up the story, I would hate to have this book end on such a horrendous note.
1 I am trying to be fair, and I will not deny that this book had for me some elements of interest.  I read all 5 volumes in quick succession, and I still feel semi-invested.  But I am honestly not sure this volume (or even the series as a whole) deserves even the 2 stars I am tempted to give it.  GRRM has sucked me in, but he also makes me feel like a sucker.  And having read it, I would now give 10:1 odds that the series will never be completed.This latest volume alone contains 959 hardback pages; over 400,000 words; close to matching in length all 3 volumes of Tolkien's LORD OF THE RINGS.  How could a book this long contain so little in the way of plot progression?  Is the author stalling on purpose, or is this the only way he can cope with some weird kind of writer's block?Part of the problem was that George RR Martin, whatever his talent for piquing the readers interest and keeping him turning pages, was never that efficient a writer.  He often uses 10 words to say would could be better said in 5.  Even the early volumes could, in my opinion, be trimmed down significantly and be the better for it (in particular, I could have without the voyeuristic sex stuff, constant whore references, etc.).  But the level of inefficiency and bloat has increased with each volume, reaching new heights with the last two.The other part of the problem is the proliferation of characters and points of view ("POVs"):1. Game of Thrones:  9 povs2. Clash of Kings:  10 povs3. Storm of Swords:  12 povs4. Feast for Crows:  13 povs5. Dance with Dragons: 18 povs4/5. Feast/Dance combined:  25 povsIf you consider that FEAST and DANCE are supposed to be "the same book" divided by POV, then you can see that the number of POVs suddenly doubled after STORM.  No wonder the story suddenly became unmanageable for the author.  If one divides ones story between twice as many different characters in twice as many different locations, then the story can only progress half as fast.  And if your chapters contain twice as much bloat (as seems to have happened), the your story can only progress one quarter as fast.And then the author starts repeating himself, perhaps because he fears you have not seen So-and-So in so long that you have forgotten what happened last time.  More bloat.A third aspect of the problem is this:  In the first volume, not only were there only 9 povs, but they were mostly gathered in the same place and time and able to help a single storyline forward.  GAME OF THRONES started most of the main POVs together, such that there were initially 2 main threads, which then divided into 3 main threads.  Only at the end of the volume were the 7 surviving POVs completely scattered to the winds.  Then did the author require 2 more (larger) volumes to complete the same level of plot progression that the first volume had.  And yet many fans remained patient and even enthusiastic.  Then it got worse ...By the end of DANCE, we still have about 20 surviving POVs, and they are all still all scattered.  One would think that the author would recognize this problem created by this vast scope, and adjust his writing style accordingly.  But no.  He thinks he has the time to describe how it feels for a character to urinate, and then describe a conversation he has with another character about how good he is is at urinating.  Will his urinations skills have future plot relevance?  He thinks he has the time to spend an entire paragraph describing a humble boat whose sole plot function is to transport a minor character from point A to point B (and leave him there), and then the author wastes another paragraph on how this minor character could have arrived on a nicer boat had things been different.  George, you could have saved half a page, there.  There are COUNTLESS such examples.  Each chapter needs to have its length cut in half AT LEAST.So where are we now?  How close is he to finished.THRONES was originally sold as the first of a "trilogy" (though the author admits he already knew better at publicaton).  But his "trilogy" plan had originally been as follows:Part 1:  Game of Thrones:  Covering War of 5 Kings.Part 2:  Dance of Dragons:  Dany invades WesterosPart 3:  Winds of WinterWell, he ended up needing a full 3 volumes to complete part 1.  Part 2 was supposed to resume the story 5 years later, but for whatever reason, the author decided to scrap this plan and write an interim volume called "FEAST FOR CROWS".  Let's call this Part 1.5.  Well, as you recall, FEAST ended up becoming so bloated that it had to be split in two volumes, the second half being what is now being released as "A Dance with Dragons."But the bad news is, this unplanned Part 1.5 is not even finished.  All the threads that were set up in FEAST and DANCE to converge on Meereen have not reached there yet, as this latest closes.  Hey, remember that guy Victarion with the dragon horn who set off for Meereen at the beginning of FEAST FOR CROWS.  Well, he is still at sea.  BUT HE'S GETTING CLOSE!!!  When will Dany finally land in Westeros?  At this rate, it won't be until volume 7, because she will need all of Volume 6 to resolve the impending climax in Meereen.So here is a release schedule, with my estimated projections into the future, giving George 5 years to complete each future volume:Part I, Vol 1 (A Game of Thrones):  1996Part I, Vol 2 (A Clash of Kings):  1998Part I, Vol 3 (A Storm of Swords): 2000Part 1.5, Vol 1 (A Feast for Crows):  2005Part 1.5, Vol 2 (A Dance with Dragons):  2011Part 1.5, Vol 3 ...  2016 (Climax in Meereen)Part 2, Vol 1 .... 2021  Dany reaches Westeros)Part 2, Vol 2 .... 2026Part 2, Vol 3 .... 2031Part 3, Vol 1 .... 2036Part 3, Vol 2 .... 2041Part 3, Vol 3 .... 2046GRRM still says he hopes to finish the series in seven volumes.  But if that were so, those who believed that promise had a right to expect better story progress in this volume.  He should just be honest and say that he hopes to complete the series in 12 volumes and that he also hopes to live to be 120 in excellent health (don't we all).  That way, potential readers could make an informed decision as to whether they should invest time and money in this story.But I cannot see it at his current rate.  This story will not be resolved, and readers who hope for a resolution are wasting their time with it.  That's how I am calling it.  George, you are welcome to prove me wrong.
2 It wasn't worth the (extremely long!) wait.This book makes a lot of promises-but never quite gets around to fulfilling them.I slogged my way through it, but I hope the next one is more like the first ones...and don't take so long to write, either!
5 Who would have thought I would have angered so many people with my initial review -- written about a third of the way through the book?  Here's what I wrote:I hate it when people write a review about a book they haven't finished.  Really.  And, yet, here I am.  So many negative reviews made me doubt the past two weeks when I reread the four earlier novels.  (Loved each of them.  Loved FEAST FOR CROWS much more the second time around.)  DANCE WITH DRAGONS definitely develops the story, moves us past A STORM OF SWORDS.  This is RICH story telling with lots of background, history, and detail.  Characters are developed.  AND plot moves forward.  Yes, as with FEAST there has yet to be any big moments, like the death of Eddard Stark, the Red Wedding, the fall of Winterfell, but, still, the story is gripping.  Reading DANCE in the immediate wake of the first four novels makes the newest novel so much better.  Yes, I still have lots to read.  But, I just had to contradict the negative reviews.  The book is very much worth the read.  Do not be daunted.  Better yet.  Reread what precedes DANCE and have a most remarkable reading experience.Now that I've finished, here's my response:First, I admitted to disliking writing an early review.  But I justified it.  There were simply too many negative reviews and, had I listened to them, I would have missed out on a remarkable reading experience.Second, it would behoove any reader to reread FEAST (or, better yet, the entire series) before reading DANCE.  Rereading allows the reader to identify all the character development and forward movement -- some of which is subtle -- that occurs in DANCE.Third, I loved this book.  Yes, I can agree with many aspects of the negative reviews:  Tyrion does lose his "zing,"  yes, Dany's chapter's go on a bit too long, and yes, all the single chapter POVs are a bit annoying.  And yet, Martin has moved his story forward.  Ending with far too many cliffhangers -- again, I agree! -- but the only reason I am hanging on that cliff is because the story is so darn good! As frustrating as the book could be at times -- it is LONG -- it was a remarkably rich reading experience.  This is elevated fiction.Fourth, I have a theory.  The next book will be out within two years.  Why?  It's all about money making.  Remember, Martin told us he had written a large portion of DANCE at the time FEAST was released.  He did NOT need six years to write DANCE.  But he did need the time to wait for HBO to give him the larger -- deserved -- audience he and his publishers wanted.  (Have you seen the bestseller lists lately?)  He sat on this.  Worked on the next volume.  And, now, we will see the final volumes released in a more timely manner.
4 Reading the death of one of my favorite characters in the series is never easy (no spoilers here) but this book is a good staging point to a climax yet to come.  Can't wait to read about what happens next.  Hope Martin releases the next book soon.
3 This review will provide hints about the book that some may consider spoilers.  If you don't want ANY plot information about the book before you read it, you will not find this review helpful.  It is meant for fans who want to know what they're getting before they decide whether or not to invest time and money on this long-awaited novel.So, it's finally here: the excruciatingly-awaited fifth installment to George R.R. Martin's "I eat  'epic' for breakfast" A Song of Ice and Fire series.  I am sure that most fans of Martin's previous books in the series will already be familiar with the "Meereen knot" that was largely responsible for delaying this book all these years.  What those fans will want to know is whether Martin was able to solve that problem.  (For those who do not know, the "Meereen knot" is a reference to how many characters he -- apparently unwittingly -- sent to Meereen instead of sending Dany to Westeros.  Getting them all out of Meereen and over to Westeros was apparently a big problem for him.)  Unfortunately, the answer is a firm NO.  He spends this entire 900+ page tome pulling diligently at its strings but in the end, Dany, while admittedly no longer in Meereen, is still not demonstrably closer to conquering Westeros than she was in her last series appearance, and she finds herself in a much weaker position to do so than at the end ofA Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3).  In addition to that disappointment, several of the myriad random characters who were on their way to Meereen because of Dany and/or the dragons by the end ofA Feast for Crows (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 4)don't even make it to her.  So their stories still have to be straightened out and untangled and who knows how long that will take.Meereen and the doings there (or leading up to getting there) take up about half of the book and about a third is devoted to Jon Snow.  His actions at the Wall are exciting to read, as he makes extremely controversial decisions in order to prepare for what will obviously be an epic battle with the Others.  We don't learn anything new about the Others, unfortunately, but the pieces are in place for that battle, when (and if) it does come.  And his final chapter is the biggest cliffhanger in the book.  Sadly, there are a couple of obscure hints about his real identity but no solid information.Beyond these two main prongs, the last fourth of the book is filled with a few chapters from old characters whose stories give us a brief glimpse of what is happening north of the Wall and far to the south of it, with a couple of chapters peeking in on Arya in Bravos.  Fans will be pleased to know that Bran finally gets where he's going, and even if he doesn't do anything much of interest when he gets there the "people" he meets make for the most interesting additions to the ASoIaF world yet.  (Sadly, no positive ID on Coldhands though.)  One token Jaime chapter gives us a major clue about Brienne's cliffhanger ending in AFFC, but he himself doesn't do anything except mend some riverland fences.  Cersei's two chapters are satisfactory though they don't answer any major questions about her ultimate fate and we even get a one-chapter look at what's happening in Dorne through the eyes of our old friend Areo Hotah.  A left-for-dead character takes us through most of what's happening in the North without a Stark in Winterfell, and we also get Asha Greyjoy as a POV character for the first time.  We even get an answer to the question of whether that really was Davos whose hands and head were mounted by the Manderlys.  The one major missing puzzle piece is the Vale.  Sansa Stark doesn't appear at all, and there isn't a single character who sheds light on what Littlefinger might be getting up to or how his plots will ultimately impact the rest of the story.  And one character we've heard of but never formally met in anyone's narrative gets his own POV to introduce a new major character who is either a big red herring or a complete game changer.  Martin has already dropped hints that this person is just a red herring, so it's unclear why he chose to bring this guy in so late in the series and what his puzzling introduction will ultimately accomplish that actually benefits the main story.So on the whole, is it worth reading?  Absolutely.  If you're a fan and you haven't given up on the series despite the delays, you'll want to read this for sure.  And if it hadn't been for the long wait between books, I don't think there'd be QUITE as many naysayers for this novel.  It's not bad, by any means.  It's a little disappointing because of what is left out and because of what does NOT happen, but as long we don't wait five more years (or more!!) to get those questions answered, I think it's an acceptable entry into the series.  (And an acceptable second "half" ofA Feast for Crows (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 4))  The finale is being framed for us, but all we can see so far is a chunk of sky here, some red and black blurs there -- nothing that gives us a real hint of what the finished jigsaw puzzle will look like.  Based on Martin's own interview comments in the months leading up to this book's release, he is well aware of the dangers of not providing a satisfactory ending to a series.  I don't think this book is any reason for fans to lose hope in his ability to ultimately deliver a satisfying conclusion with the seventh book.  It's engrossing and filled with great scenes.  But as the fifth book in a series of seven, it is responsible for laying the final major pieces in place as we start ramping up for the conclusion.  At this point, it's impossible to say what all of those pieces are.  Only Martin knows for sure and his fans will know that even after five years, they can still trust him to do it right.
2 What happened to a Song of Ice and Fire.I still remember being gripped and hooked by the first three books in the series. The books were big but never long to read. I devoured the pages. Scenes still stick out in my head. I loved the way Martin confounded my expectations at every turn. How he twisted the characters and how the POV made everyone seem right. I enjoyed the way he turned Jaime Lannister around in a Storm of Swords. Martin was a writer at the height of his powers but then the inevitable fall began.The downfall started wtih Feast and it was a torrid bore. It felt big, there was no tension, there was nothing I could take away from the book. Dance I thought would be better but it too disappointed with everyone just walking from point A to point B. I could hardly believe that this was the same Martin who penned scenes like the Red Wedding. The introduction of the Direwolves set everything up wonderfully. In that one scene you knew who the characters were, what sort of world this was. You knew that Jon Snow was a bastard, one of the Starks and yet not one of them, you knew that Eddard Stark was an honorable man. The entrance of the Lannisters was magnificently written. The twists just kept coming and all the while the writing was stellar. Tyrion just delivered. His wit and piercing insight into affairs made him everyone's favorite dwarf. You could almost always feel the pain when Littlefinger spoke of Catelyn Stark. The story always moved forward. There was no room for standing still. Martin possessed this ability of introducing characters but you felt as if you had known them all along but the magic just vanished.Feast and Dance were soap opersa in which it made absolutely no difference if you skipped pages and scenes because you became reasonably sure that nothing of note would really happen. There was some memorable stuff but they were so scattered and so few in between that it was worse than trying to find a needle in a haystack.Worse than this was the fact that no mainstream publication seemed to take a stand and say that a Dance with Dragons was boring. Everyone was effusive. It was almost as if they had been paid to do a positive review or they didn't want to risk saying anything contrarian.Martin was on song in the first three books but he just seems to have lost his muse. I hope he rediscovers it in the Winds of Winter and keeps it focussed and stops it from meandering about.From [...]
2 Game of Thrones was one of my all time favorite series when it first issued, full of hope and promise in a unique world of (not so) courtly knights trumped by incestuous twins, dragons and shapeshifters.  Like Robert Jordan (Wheel of Time)  Martin's plotting skills are not up to his world building, and Book 5 is the worst kind of Anticlimax -- full of enough foreshadowing to make the fate of the few survivors predictable.  Kind of a core dump of unused backstory and long winded mico detail, wrapped around limited plot advancement which consists mainly of &#34;wrapping up&#34; loose ends by ending their existence.  Considering all that culminated in Book 4, this would be a good one to skip and see if Book 6 emerges, and if so, does better.
5 As with all his other books, it is a well written fantasy novel with the perspective of several characters during the same time period. The characters are all very unique, and if you know the series, you will know all these characters already (John, Danny etc.). The whole series is gripping, though not really recommended for the romantic fantasy novel reader as it really doesn't have a thorough ground in that, though does satisfy with the spit-fire romances that usually end in death or betrayal.
5 This series is the very best I have ever read. My only complaint will be if The Winds of Winter is not released very quickly. Great read!
3 I have been waiting for this fifth chapter, anxious to follow these unforgettable characters, hoping for some resolution. While this installment was somewhat satisfying, I feel like I was invited to the feast and asked to leave before I could enjoy something like dessert or a conclusion, as I had expected in Book Four. Again, disappointment, no, more like anticipation for being able to "catch up"with characters barely mentioned in this segment. What happened to Sam and the true Prince?I realize that a work this detailed comes with a high price from the author. The detail, the tangled plot line, characters must overwhelm the author. He has done such a good job drawing me into this fantasy: a first-time trip for this voracious reader.  I pray that sometime in the not so distant future, he will satisfy my hunger for more.
4 This book filled in some of the questions that remained from Book 4 .  It gave us a look at what was happening to several of the main characters.  The characters are mostly charismatic and the reader truly wants to know what happens to them.I find it difficult to follow so many characters with only a chapter here and then again many chapters later.  It is difficult also to see many of appear to be main characters killed off.I do applaud the intensity and degree of thoughtfulness that goes into the descriptions.  Also love to "see" what is being thought and then what is actually said.
5 One of the things I really liked is that the author, George R R Martin, puts an incredible amount of detail into each character so you feel you actually know them.  Some you will love and some not but just when you think you know what's going to happen next there's a twist throw in.  Really keeps you going.  My only problem with this book is that book six isn't written yet!  Oh what a let down.
2 I expected to enjoy this book, and kept doggedly reading along in hopes a plot line which made sense would appear and pull the story together.  It never did. It may be my fault as I did not read the earlier stories in this series. Perhaps I'm out of line thinking that a book should stand alone.  This one starts in the middle of events and ends in the middle of events without resolving anything.  It jumps from character to character, keeping the more unpleasant ones alive and suddenly killing off those which the reader has come to care about, to no particular benefit to the storyline.  I wasted quite a few hours reading this book thinking it would surely improve.  Wrong.  The author has talent but needs to turn his work over to an editor who knows how to weave a tale.
5 One of favorites in the series. Covers all the best characters.
5 If you do nothing else for the rest of your days make sure you read all the books in the Game Of Thrones series.They are the best books I have every read and the only books I have ever read twice.
5 I can't imagine why this book is getting the low reviews.  I was so disappointed with the fourth book, but felt the first three were so wonderful, I just had to give him the benefit of the doubt...and I'm so glad I did.  The action was relentless..the scope magnificent..and the plot intricate and nerve-wracking (in a good way).  Thank you Mr. Martin!
2 While I would often express my frustration at the author and the pace of the series (A Dance of Dragons taking over ten years to complete after the preceeding volume), I always thought I had the book to look forward to.  I hardly expected to be critical of the book, the author maybe, but not the book.  After all THIS was the follow up to a Storm of Swords!  One of the best fantasy books written in my opinion and which I highly reviewed for Amazon.So, no spoilers... if you have followed this series you should read this, ahm, book, that much is plain.  There are a couple of gems within in terms of individual scenes, and some surprises/answers to set questions from the earlier books.  But there is no over-riding interest factor, and two thirds of the way through the book it was clear that there was no reason to continue reading other than that I had read all the previous books in the series.At the rate Martin puts these things out, recently anyway, like one book every six years or so, I will probably not read the next one in the series, or I will wait till a day when I have the flu and it is in cheap paperback (or kindle).After ten years of waiting with a excitement, I no longer care a wit about the characters or the plots in this series.
1 I would give all the previous books in the series at least a 4 or higher, and each one left me anticipating the next book.  But this book has completely destroyed any interest I have in finding out what happens next in the series.  This book goes absolutely NOWHERE interesting.  It is like packing to go on a road trip, but spending the entire trip going around in circles in a parking lot.  Other reviewers have commented on the excessive details; I don't mind details if they add something to the story, but too often the details just seem like filler (was GRRM getting paid by the word?). Too much time was spent on what the chracters ate, or what they wore (I'm talking about you, Dany), and not enough time on what they thought or felt. I kept waiting for something to happen, and everytime the story looked as though it were going to pick up steam (see Reek), it fizzled out like wet firecrackers. The other 4 books kept me up at night reading until the wee hours of the morning, this one put me to sleep.
5 Another great book in the Game of Thrones series! Loved the ending! Can't wait until Jan 1st next year when the next book comes out.
4 I've read all the other reviews.  I understand why people are aggrieved.  But, frankly, I'm in absolute adoration of this book.Why?Because while others have complained of no forward movement in the story, no "action", no big battles and a lot of sailing, horseback riding and other forms of ASOIAF travel, I have to say that it's exactly what a fan of world-building like me was hoping for in the middle book of the series.This book, along with its conjoined twin, A Feast For Crows, is the "Order of the Phoenix"/"Two Towers" of this world.  And it's the perfect time to give more detail on the other lands we have heard about but not met.  Remember how the first book had you hating certain characters, but by book 3 you "knew" them better and had perhaps grown quite fond of them?  This book does for the WORLD of ASOIAF what the first three books did for the characters.  It lays it out in a travelogue style.  Through the eyes of various voyagers we learn vastly more about the Free Cities, The North and other parts of the ASOIAF globe.It's a canard to say that "nothing happens".  Perhaps if you think things are only happening if there is much clanging of swords and shields and explosions of Wildfyre then, yeah.  "Nothing" happens.  Instead there are many SOMETHINGS happening.  Characters are developing.  Political alliances that have lasted for centuries are being reshaped, sometimes abruptly.This is not a loud, boisterous, bellicose book.  This is a Maester's sort of book, a compendium of myth, lore, medicine, politics.  It's the kind of book that I expect will make the cataclysmic wars in the last books more flavourful.  Because now they will be set against a glorious tapestry, not dropped into a void.  I'm sorry those who are more enthralled with action comics are disappointed.  I am overjoyed.
5 Can this guy write a &#34;bad&#34; book?  I don't think so.  What an adventure!  Keep on disfiguring your heros.  I love it.
5 My only problem with this book is the same as the prior books in this series - Mr. Martin writes such generously sized books and writes them with such skill that I cannot put them down.  This means I read them for literally hours and hours on end.  But what an enjoyable way to spend so many hours!  I cannot tell whether I enjoy the characters more than the plots or vice versa.  I feel I truly know these people.
5 A lot of characters but the story is a little loose.  Still, on his worst days, George R.R.Martin writes a better book than almost anyone writing fantasy.  I think that this could  easily have been part of Book Four rather than a free standing Book Five. However  I just read them not write them.  Even if it is the weakest of the five it is still very good and worth every minute spent reading it.  I am afraid that it will be a while for Books 6,7, and 8.  Too bad.
5 Luv this author. Great reading. Can hardly wait for the 6th book.  Luv the HBO series.  Long book but worth the time to read it from end to end.
5 I like this entire series.....I am only disappointed that I have to wait for the sixth book to come out. I thought, initially, it was a 4 book series and when I finished I was stunned to realize it wasn't finished! So, I purchased book 5 anticipating the finale! Wrong again!!! It is very difficult to read a series and have to wait so long for the last(?) book to be published. Readers who have been following this Game of Thrones would like an conclusion, not to be strung along for years and years waiting for the end. Unfortunately, what sometimes happen is that we lose interest and never finish because it is too long between books. Just sayin'.  At least that's how I feel! I have become &#34;attached&#34; to some of these characters and feel terrible when they are eliminated and thrilled when they succeed. Let's get book 6 out asap and get this Game finished. Thanks for a terrific ride so far!
3 i am really tired of the Thrones.  it almost feels like someone co-wrote this last one.  i like to read while i eat and the descriptions of death and mayhem are much more disgusting than the first four.Also, he is adding new people and basically ignoring our old friends and enemies.  i'm half way through the last one (thank goodness it is the last one) and i'm just not interested anymore but i'll finish it because i've spent too much time on it.
5 These books are consistently amazing. Like the others, I couldn't put it down. Looking forward to the next one. I love Jon Snow.
5 I read a lot of negative reviews on this book, so was a little hesitant, but ordered it anyway.  Glad I did because it picks up on characters that are missing in the last book.  When I read series books I have to read them all to see how it ends, don't like to be left hanging and wondering what happened.  For me this is a good read so far, a little slow, but I believe it will get there eventually.
5 I find this book amazing. Its really creative, imaginative, descriptive. I had a really good time reading it. The way the writer describes the characters and places makes you feel like if you were there, he makes you feel that you are part of the story;  looking at everything that is happening.
4 I enjoyed A Dance with Dragons much more than A Feast for Crows. I was glad to see my favorite characters return to the story (Dany, Tyrion, Jon Snow) however I really think the scope of Martin's story has grown too broad. In the early books, it was easy to see how Dany's story related to the goings-on in King's Landing, even though they were completely separate. Even though there were several different locations where the action took place and some of the characters never interacted, I could imagine how (eventually) everyone might link up. After this book, however, I am truly not sure how Martin will manage to connect the different stories. There are too many secondary point-of-view characters at this point in the series. I still enjoy the story but I have concerns. I also have concerns about the release of the sixth book, since there were six years between the fourth and fifth books, when Martin stated in the epilogue of FfC there would be a year.
4 A Dance with Dragons is the fifth book of the series. The last one was a bit slow and this one was a bit slower, but I still enjoyed it and can't wait for the next book.I've read some pretty hilarious and spot-on criticisms of this book, mostly that nothing happens. While this book doesn't need to be as long as it is (there are some excruciatingly elaborate descriptions of traveling through grass, snow, and river), there is a lot happening here. A new villain emerges (so much worse than Joffrey), Cercei must deal with her imprisonment, and new sides in the battle gather strength.Some of the chapters read like filler, but it could be reasonably called character description. Martin is setting the stage here, moving the cyvasse pieces around the board, and getting us ready for the next installment.HBO will begin airing the next season at the beginning of 2014.-Katie O'Rourke, author of Monsoon Season
5 I WAS SO THRILLED TO FIND ANOTHER VOLUME AFTER READING THE 4 VOLUME SET  THAT I COULD NOT WAIT TO GET MY HANDS ON IT.  I WAS NOT DISAPPOINTED.  IT IS A TERRIFIC STORY THAT IS EPIC IN ITS QUALITY AS WELL AS ITS QUANTITY.  I CAN'T WAIT FOR VOLUME VI.
4 I have read all in this series so far, and this one was great. There was a lot of excitement in the plot. I can't wait for the next one. If you follow the TV show Game of Thrones, I definitely recommend reading the books.
3 Right, I'm pretty aware that the author is not my servant, but he has been our trusted guide through Westeros for some time. I think the audience has a right to be disappointed, because the first three books were awesome, and the long awaited Crows-Dragons books do not deliver the same level of excitement anticipated. A lot of the dialog is just awful, even for an adult book. I can handle reading these things, I just don't see how they add value to the story. Dialog is not supposed to be the punch line to every What's Grosser Than Gross joke ever written. I remembered something while reading this book, that once Mr. Martin decided to make this a five novel series, he was having a challenge writing the background/memories for what he eventually would put in Crows and Dragons. So the these books weren't even a part of the original plan, and it shows. I actually don't think it's as horrible as everyone is making it out to be, but I did cheat. I took another reader's advice of skipping the Tyrion, Jon, Daeny, and Quentyn POVs in the middle - essentially sticking with Reek and Cersei. For those seeking to make the read more fun, I recommend the Dance with Dragons drinking game: take a shot every time you read the words neeps, reek, mummer's farce, and hodor. I read the first third of the book, and thought it was  a decent setup, but I was very disappointed in the lifted Monty Python line (if you find it, take two shots). I enjoyed the last third of the book, where I read all the POVs (skimming through Quentyn's) and found the memories of what happened in he middle just as good. It is all setup toward the next book, which I have a hunch (based on the massive cliffhangers we've been left with) will be really awesome. The Crows/Dragons books probably never should have been. My hope is that this is the long ascension building to continuing the final madness of the roller coaster ride this series began with.
3 I pre-ordered this when it was announced as a second half.Since then I've gotten married. I've been deployed twice. I've moved across the Atlantic and back, twice. My eldest left high school, the youngest went to prom. And host of other minor things.Somehow I expected a more from this book given the amount I've done in same time.It repeats parts from the previous. It's filled with details I don't care about. And eventually just bores me. By time things were happening I was barely paying attention.When all was said and done it moved the story along but it was a rough, noisy, unnecessarily long ride.
3 Book 5 had many of the great qualities I found in books 1-4, but I had hoped for more closure with the key characters. So many strings were left hanging - making me wonder if this book was really just a set up for the next book in the series.That being said, he is a wonderful writer whose characters create indelible impressions on the reader. I would rate the overall series a 4 1/2!
3 Here's a perfect example of what I can't stand about series books, although he is very honest about it on the dust jacket. This book encompasses all the others. If you've read them, you'll find the first half, maybe more, repetitive and slow going. Probably great if you haven't seen the show or read the serious. The die hard fans will be disappointed.
5 I have read all five in this series by George R.R. Martin and surely look forward to the next.  Each book is a huge read...I never want them to end!!!  They are exciting and complex with an outstanding cast of charters and locales.
2 I felt like I went to a great movie and had to leave 45 minutes before it was over. I never got to see the ending of the movie. George Martin spends way to much time on character thoughts and not enough time on the story.
5 George RR Martin does NOT disappoint and this 5th book in the Game of Thrones series is great!  If you're looking for a good series to get hooked on.....here you go! And there is an HBO series as well!
5 If you've read the ASOIAF series you understand just how uniquely constructed and presented these books are.  If you haven't, and are in any way a fan of fantasy, historical fiction, and/or simply something different in today's world of &#34;nothing new under the sun&#34; entertainment, you simply must give this series a try.
1 I'm not sure what happened here. I can only guess that Martin has lost interest in this, and is dragging himself through the pages on the whipping insistence of his editor.There are flashes of what I enjoyed in the first three books, but those flashes are quickly snuffed by pages and pages of monotonous slush. Not even Tyrion can save this one.I've learned a lesson here. If you start a series, tell your story, and finish it promptly. Don't do... this.King did the same thing with The Dark Towers series. Fool me once...
1 *AUDIOBOOK* QUALITY REVIEW - READ BY ROY DOTRICE:  Few months ago thought I would, instead of re-read the series, listen to it.  So I duly got all 5 books on audio and loaded them on my iPod.  They were great companions for long walks and hikes and fishing ventures and what have you.  Good quality, no complaints, transported me to Westeros as well as can be expected.At least the first 4 books, where I had the good fortune to get the versions read by Roy Avers and John Lee, did.  Then I got to audiobook 5, A Dance With Dragons, read by Roy Dotrice, and... I don't know what genius decided to change readers, but it was a ginormous brain f*rt.  All the characters sound like they're the age of Aemon Targeyan, if he had a thick Scottish accent.  All.16 year old Daenarys?  Sounds like a 90 year old Scott with throat cancer imitating what he misremembers women to have sounded like.Pre-teen Bran?  Sounds like a 90 year old Scott whining.Cercei?  Sounds like a 90 year old Scott male in one sentence, then a 90 year old Scott drag queen the next, and back and forth between the two in that vein.And conversations between characters?  Forget about it!  Audio doesn't have quotation marks, and G.RR Martin doesn't do a lot of "then Bran said '...'" or "'...' said Jon".  In prior books the readers got around that by changing tone and pitch when switching from character to character.  This book? No change in tone or pitch or anything to let you know that the speaker changed.  It's just one jumble of an old gravelly voiced Scott, and most of the time the listener has to guess from context who is talking.I hope there's another audio version coming out, read by either Roy Avers or John Lee - or anybody else for that matter.  If you're buying the audiobook, do yourself a favor and avoid the version read by Roy Dotrice.
4 I am baffled by all the 1, 2, and 3 star reviews for this book.  Especially about the 1 and 2 stars.  I have read quite a few fantasy books and I can still say this book along with Feast is better than 90% of the fantasy books out there.  So how can you give it 2 stars?The flow of this book is more like the pace of Feast with more likable characters, shorter chapters for POV characters giving it a better flow than Feast, and a bit more interesting.I believe that both Feast and Dance were "middle books" for this series but still are qaulity reads.
4 The book was a fabulous and each chapter a work that stands on it's own.Only complaint is the story never stops or comes to a conclusion. What happens if this author stops writing these stories? We'll be left hanging with no resolve. That's frustrating.
3 This book is a classic middle of the series type book. Nothing major happens. A few surprises for sure but so many loose ends it just feels like this whole book was designed to make us want the next book while the author figures out what to do next. This material could have been condensed to 500 pages with no major loss to the events that were told. As my 3 star rating implies, it was OK but a long way from the better books that preceded it.
5 I read the first four books hardcopy and decided to try kindle for this one - they are big and heavy! This series is epic and gripping. Stating the obvious here.
4 Dance With Dragons is a good book and a worthy entry in the series.First I would like to say that many will disagree with this but a lot has happened here. The thing is you must understand that much of it takes place in the same timeline as 'A Feast For Crows' and other than the last 250 pages or so does the story progress from that time. I understand why this would upset many people as they want the series to move forward as to what happens next however these events all have great relevance and for me made the previous 2 books that much better. I will not spoil the fun within but we learn of what some of the main characters have been doing or not doing since 'Storm' and feeds into what could happen next which is what a good series is about. I look forward to the next 2 with great anticipation as I am now without a good series read and will have to see if Robert Jordan is as good or bad as others have proclaimed.In short if you have been pleased by the first 3 books and left shaking your head at the 4th don't be discouraged by the bad reviews here get the book!
1 The first three books in this series are fantastic.  I loved every word.  The fourth, I struggled with...and was very frustrated when NOTHING happened!This was the same.  So much was packed into the first three books, and these last two could have been shrunk to a single chapter each.I won't buy any more in this series....I'm moving on
3 I didn't get this book until a couple weeks ago; I had read the earlier reviews, and I thought, wow, it (the book) has to be better than others wrote.  Well, having read the book now, I see a lot of validity in their comments.  To rehash what was written would be a waste, but, yes, no one of the main characters dies in this book; they all keep getting out of fixes that the author keeps getting them into.  It's almost like there is a commercial coming, so the author has to set up some difficult situation (only to be resolved down the road a bit).  Still, Martin does tell a good tale, and I am really liking the dwarf even if he did kill his father.  Martin shows Tyrion in numerous difficult situations and keeping his wits about him; still, with the plague all about them, it seems a bit much none of the leading characters catch anything. (I am, of course, only talking about the dragon queen portion of the book, not the Seven Kingdom majority of the book.  Arya Stark is a bit much at times with her stubbornness; most people would never have stayed blind once they realized they had the power to end it.  I don't think this book is as well written as some of the earlier ones, but it is still entertaining and worth a read.
5 I want to yell at myself all the time for starting to read this series. The book is engrossing and frustrating. Chapters invariably end at a spot where I want to know more. But because I've been waiting to read more about the previous scenes that were cut too short, I keep flipping pages. And that's how you go through 500+ pages in a sitting. Lucky I didn't put the kettle on before I opened the book. Like as not, I'd have burned the house down.
2 I've been waiting for the release of A Dance With Dragons for six years. It would be hard for anything short of brilliance to live up to expectations after such a long wait, yet ADWD still manages to disappoint.I believe the fundamental problem here is the same one that the late Robert Jordan ran into at around the seventh book point of his epic The Wheel of Time. Put simply, the thought and care that the author puts into world-building comes at the expense of plot development. And such attention to detail becomes extraordinarily draining as the smallest details become magnified and the cast of characters expands and collapses under its own weight. I appreciate the clearly extensive research that GRRM has put into all the different aspects of medieval life, whether it be the clothing or the castles or the ships and so on. I just wish he would get on with the story.To give a concrete example: I consider myself to be a diehard ASOIAF fan but I still have trouble making the distinction between Yunkai, Astapor, Meereen and the other locales in Essos. I simply can't bring myself to care about the characters that inhabit the region either. Unfortunately, much of ADWD is devoted to the exploits of characters bearing names like Hizdahr, Shakhaz, and Yezzan who are not interesting or sympathetic. In my opinion, one of the most compelling aspects of ASOIAF is the dynamic of rival houses with histories stretching back thousands of years, each family tied to a geographical region/landmark and the sigil of some creature with whom they are closely associated. None of this comes into play in the eastern continent, where the storylines focus primarily on the tension between slavers and those opposed to it (something I feel is well-trod ground in other literature). Reading about anonymous men described as wearing the masks of a lion, locust and wolf is not very interesting compared to the ancient enmity between House Stark and House Bolton.GRRM does make some strides when it comes to working in the literary medium. I'm referring mainly to his usage of the POV chapter headings as an indication of a character's state of mind and self-perception. This is especially effective when it comes to the story of Theon Greyjoy. I would go so far to say that ADWD can be read as a self-contained story of his character's development set against the backdrop of larger events taking place in Westeros. In light of this improvement, it is disappointing that primary POV triumvirate of Jon, Daenerys and Tyrion are so flat despite them getting the meat of the book. Jon somehow is portrayed more more dourly duty-bound than Eddard Stark in AGOT, Daenerys can't seem to go anywhere while Tyrion is mobile but never ends up in the right (i.e. more interesting for the reader) place.ADWD is obviously a must-read for those who have been invested in the series from the very beginning, but be forewarned that you will probably leave this Dance feeling hollow and unsatisfied. On the bright side, the bar has been set fairly low for The Winds of Winter which we can all hope will offer more significant plot developments.
5 According to Martin's foreword, this book has a lot of content and a lot has gone on during and since the events of A Feast for Crows. He is right.There is so much going on in this book that you'll find it hard to stop reading it.I wonder who he's going to kill off next?
5 Fifth of the Martin series, continues with intrigue and unexpected twists.  Can't wait for book six!  Hopefully sooner than later.
4 I find I mostly agree with the three and two star reviews.  That said, I'm going with four because despite the extremely bloated story lines I actually still very much enjoyed the book and the writing.  Really, compared to anything else in the genre this is still a five star book.  It has lost its way compared to the first three though, and perhaps even the fourth.The problem, as others have pointed out is that certain story lines and perspectives are beaten to death with endless chapters that never go anywhere.  All of the various Mereen chapters got to be excruciating.  That part became torture really, I would actually set the book (well Kindle really) down and do something else - never happened before with the rest of the series (even AFFC).I'm not done with the series, as I said the quality is still incredibly high compared to other series.  Many of the plot lines were engaging, but as other reviewers pointed out they are drowning in a sea of chapters dedicated to over developed plot arcs that have become boring and frustrating in their excruciatingly slow development.  Yes, it is nice to savor a tasty meal but if you chew too long the flavor is lost.  Mereen is stale gum that should have been spit out long ago.  The North was even getting to that point, but perhaps it can be saved in the next.
5 I've been reading this out of sequence. There is so much info. It's really freaking' GREAT!! My daughter has started reading some. She loves them too
5 It has taken me more than a year to read these first 5 books and yet was in love right away. By far and above the very best series I have read. Riveting every moment from beginning to end. I am anxiously awaiting the release of The Winds of Winter. Thank you Mr Martin, for being a brilliant writer and sharing this story with us
1 I can only second what many reviewers before me have remarked upon: the book is far too long, too wordy and too repetitive to stand in comparison to volume one to three.I think GRRM just isn't the same personality anymore that he was when working on the first three volumes. And although he always assured us that he was diligently working on AFFC first and then ADWD, I think he has done about diddly squat in all that time. You just had to look at his NAB every few weeks: "NFL this and conventions that..." that's all it was about. It's all his life is about now, I suppose.Then when that HBO deal came along, the cunning salesman acknowledged an opportunity: "Hey, lots of additional publicity!" So, for the first time in years he sat down to really work a bit on ADWD, only to find out that he had changed so much he couldn't get access anymore to his own creation.To remedy that he wrote. A lot. Trying to immerse himself in the world and characters his readers wanted to hear about. Sadly, all his efforts turned out to be just finger exercises. He doesn't have a grip on the characters as he created them anymore. That's why they all behave so strangely out of character, imo.And he seemingly has no idea where to take the story he started. It was all clear once, but now it's muddled in his own mind.  That's what outlines are good for, but GRRM is a "freewriter", "a gardener, not an architect". Moreover it's been so long, many readers have guessed the originally planned grand revelation: J=R+L. So, out of the lunch box comes young Griff, just to show these pesky readers that GRRM is alwasy good for a surprise. It all feels forced, added on and not thought through.Even the prose is different now, much coarser, many and more repetitions, archaic expressions and catch phrases.I didn't buy this one, in fact I cancelled my 2008 pre-order as soon as I was informed the book would be ready for delivery in two weeks time, so appalled was I by his conduct on the NAB (water damaged goods, anyone?). And I won't bother with the next if ever it should come out in my lifetime. I don't want the characters and storyline that I once loved spoiled anymore in my mind than he has managed to do with this clunker of a book.
2 After finishing the slow trainwreck that was A Feast For Crows which immediately followed three of the best fantasy books I have ever read, I was hopeful to see the series get back to its roots. I understood that due to the damn dragons a time skip or period of danys being off screen would be needed. What I didn't know was that George would handle it in the worst way possible. Except in Theon's case he seems to be ignorant to when letting a character linger in shadows is appropriate and when it is not.Brienne for example, brought us nothing but a cliffhanger in book 4, when she could have gone without a POV, or two chapters max.In Dance the number of pointless chapters is disgusting.Surely the master who wrote Game of Thrones could nestle Tyrion into the story again in an interesting way? But all of his chapters amount to nothing and I confess I skimmed the later half of them. He went from the best character in the series and some of fiction to being annoying and negligible.Aegon came out of nowhere, and while Griff is interesting his arrival was unwelcome amongst so many stale POV's.Arya has fallen from grace like Tyrion and for two books has been a bore. All we needed was a chapter of her entering training, and then when we see her when training is done a brief recap, instead she pollutes countless pages in both books.Dany is so painstaking, only around 4 chapters were passable. The rest were atrocious bores.Jon had a strong intro in the book, but it deteriorates when time is spent on irrelevant aspects of the NW, and his POV ends with what was foretold at the beginning of the arc biting him in the ass, with an obvious cliffhanger.I confess I wanted to see frankengregor defend Cersei in this book, but instead we get her long drawn out suffering. But I wont say that is bad.Victarion is a beast but accomplishes nothing and didn't need to be included as such.Asha is annoying at this point and I had hoped she died when we first saw her in this book.Bran has been in a similar boat to Arya, though his journey has been long and dragged out. Luckily this book gets him to his goal in some of the more interesting chapters. But where his character will go is unclear and has been for 5000 pages. I don't think GRRM knows himself.Quentyn is the funniest character, due to the fact he was such a silly addition to the story. I didn't know why he had come in and just wished he would die. His "Oh" thought as he got roasted was actually awesome and made his few chapters ultimately hilarious, despite being wastes of paper.I can't say it was all bad.The prologue was amazing, and if the others actually did something in the book it would have been an incredible set up and tone setter. Much better than AFFC's garbage intro, to which I am also convinced George created without a reason. But I digress.Davos is still pretty cool and meets some neat people.Theon out of nowhere is the best POV in the story, though even he could have done with one less chapter.Melisandre as a POV made me grin, though its unfortunate it goes nowhere.Barristan is awesome too, but Mereen feels so much like a filler area I am hard pressed to care.The epilogue is great, except that it makes me yearn for another installment, a real one. Which may never come.George still writes great, but it is so clunky and bogged up that it makes the crappy POV's unbearable and the good ones tedious. Another reviewer made a great point, that in AGOT that Cats journey to Kings landing was not several chapters. It happened hastily because there was an end goal to be reached, and the journey was not a significant element. However in ADWD EVERYONE is stuck in the stasis of a journey.Imagine if AGOT spend 3 chapters for the trips of Cat to and from Kings Landing, that when the Khalasar ventured to their conquests the journey was documented. That on the way south from Winterfell the trip before and after the Joffery incident were written in detail. You get the idea.These meaningless journeys prefaced by cliffhanger endings aren't needed in the first books because there IS a destination. Martin knew where we were going and was excited to get there. That is the core problem with the plot and pacing of the series.As far as the main flaw in the writing formula, the whole description, description, description, CLIFFHANGER routine is seriously getting old with the previously mentioned problem. There are cliffhangers just for the sake of being cliffhangers, so much to the point that nothing happens in the meat of the chapters. I kid you not, only about five chapters have anything truly interesting happen before the last paragraph. This is doubly offensive when it is a false flag character death. Tyrion obviously wasn't going to drown, Davos obviously wasn't going to be killed, Brienne obviously wasn't going to be killed, most annoying Jon snow obviously isn't dying like that. For a heartbeat I though Quentyn was going to come back and I would have needed to burn the book.The final problem and the most infuriating is that every book(although the first 3 could justify it and had some big event or resolution) builds up, and leaves a plethora of cliffhangers. In 1 and 2 especially it was done well enough that you could imagine just enough and smile at what you thought might happen, but in 4 and 5 it all just feels random.IF the next book actually cuts the filler and brings home a legitimate story that cuts the cheap tactics and redeems the seemingly lost causes like Arya and Bran, and gets Dany and Tyrion back on the right track we will have the makings of an epic with a sluggish middle. Otherwise this will be one of the worst series ever, and a legendary bait and switch.
4 I totally loved the 1st 3 books, hated the 4th and was dreading the 5th, but it was a good recovery.  Although I didn't enjoy this one as much as the 1st books, I did like it a lot.  It moves along so much better than the 4th book.
2 When and if a new book in this series comes out, I'll wait for it to be available at the library, if I even bother. This book covered so many characters, most of whom I did not remember or care about. It is a continuation of book 3 and runs in parallel to book 4. Book 3 came out eleven years ago, which is too long for me to remember. This book does not wrap anything up and Martin has an annoying habit of killing the few major characters we actually care about.
5 Yes, I too wish the story had 200 more pages to move the story closer to its conclusion, though better yet why not the 2000 to 5000 more pages it will take to finish this. Even with book yet another stepping stong toward its conclusion, its a very impressive - masterpiece - of a book, in a series which is the best fantasy series ever. If GRRM croaks before his masterpiece is complete I will kill him myself! Wanting more is really what the impatient folks are complaining about, which is the best thing any author can hear. I loved this book. I love this series. Yes, I want more, though not to the point where I have to knock stars off the rating because it;s taking longer than I would like. This is a large book, though the times flies by reading it, and the end comes way too quick, despite it's mega length. It takes a great book to suspend time like that. Hence my 5 star rating. Greaqt job, GRRM, please keep on a rolling!
2 I have been waiting impatiently for this book for a LONG time, but I feel like it is taking me twice as long as I spent waiting just to plow through this book.  The characters are still very interesting, but not a lot is happening in Dance of Dragons.  I'm about 85% of the way through the book, but the story line hasn't been advanced by much at all, and I'm pretty sure that this series can't be concluded without a lot more books, if they are all going to be this slow.  And, sorry, Mr. Martin, I don't want to wait as long as it would take for you to write that many more books!Also, the book has a lot of typos - especially the word "then" when "than" should have been used.  Sloppy editing, but I'm pretty sure it wouldn't have been so irritating if I had been less bored.
1 I won't wax philosophical and in great detail as to why this was a disappointment; too many others have done it much more eloquently than I could. Not only did I buy the ADwD book, I downloaded the Kindle version so I'd never be without it until I finished it.  Never again.  If GRRM ever does release another installment, I'll come here and get the Cliff Notes and read the reviews before depositing another penny on this series. I thought perhaps AFfC was an abberation and surely this one would make up for it.Let me also add that I'm a very forgiving person for authors regarding timelines for releasing books and the occasional story dragging a bit. When I decide to buy a particular author or series, I buy and collect them all. So for me to give this highly-anticipated book 2 stars and to feel strongly enough to voice my disappointment is a rarity. I'd have given it one star, but I really like the cover and it looks good in my library. Just so.
5 I'll be brief: I wholeheartedly disagree with everyone who has said that this book is insufficient, lame, short, boring, or whatever. Martin simply outdoes himself in every possible way in this book, which is huge and deals mostly with some of his (and mine) favorite characters. Tyrion outdoes himself again in being hilarious, Daenerys faces maybe her worst challenges yet, and Jon Snow goes overboard as Commander of the Watch, with overly ambitious plans. The story not only completes that of the previous volume, but actually advances in the last third or so.With the story now poised for an exciting climax, I personally hope that Martin can start wrapping things up and not &#34;pull a Robert Jordan&#34; on us ;)
3 I cheated and basically watched Game of Thrones and Clash of Kings on HBO's series. I've read storm of swords, feast for crows and I'm 1/2 way through Dances with Dragons. Storm of swords was excellent and feast for crows was a nice change of pace but now I must confess that either I'm losing interest or the story line is getting tiresome. George Martin is a brilliant writer - very detailed and descriptive, a little too descriptive in my mind. There are some very exciting events that take place in the book but it takes 100 pages of background information and descriptions of characters and scenery to get to it.
5 The lovely saga of the Starks continues as Martin skillfully weaves plot lines in this newest chapter of the Game of Thrones series. The clash of evil against good heats up as dragons take to the air with treachery at every turn. If only Ned could see how it all unfolded. Deservedly addicting. Thanks Mr. Martin for another chapter in this rollicking adventure.
4 Noticeably dragged out and forced in some parts, but you'll read it just based on the inertia from the forst four books.
5 The book shipped quickly, although there were a few dusty fingerprints on a few of the pages when I received the book. :/.  Otherwise it is a great read and well worth the money if you want a book with twists and turns, and a well developed political system.
5 My only concern is how long it has taken Mr. Martin to write subsequent novels.  I am in limbo waiting for the sixth book.  His characters are so engaging.  I am thrilled also with the TV series.  The choice of the actors to portray his characters are excellent especially Peter Dinklage as Tyrion.  It is a very tough role to play.  I was concerned at first but now in the third season, I am so impressed that I have no fingernails left!  When will the sixth novel be out?
4 I was very sad to learn, half way through the book, that the next book and some of the ragged ends, is still not even finished. I'll need a refresher course by the time the next book is published. This is a disservice to your readers, Mr Martin.
5 Read this book in one whole day. Waited forever for it and will probably start re-reading Book 4 before reading this again. Highly addictive. This book in particular has me wondering when Danni will take over the world!
5 One of the best book series I've ever read, can't wait for book 6,7,, & 8.  The HBO series brings the many characters and dragons alive. I still encourage the tv show watchers to also read the books. If you are looking for that great escape with a never ending story, this is the book series for you.  Enjoy. I know I did.
5 I think this is a great series,  I love his writing style and the dark gritty scenes. He is a master at his craft. Series may have slowed some but after reading Robert Jordan's Dragon Reborn series I am used to a lull in some books and think the overall piece speaks for itself.
5 A huge improvement from the last book.  A lot more dragon & dire wolf action. As usual there are a few disappointments but as always I only want to start reading the next book.
4 Well written as usual, if a bit spastic with the character jumps. Though if you made it this far in the series you should be used to that by now. Now for the long wait til the next book
5 My breath is gone and my heart is racing fast and All I can say is &#8220;The game is afoot&#8220;
3 GRRM set a very high standard with the first three novels in this series.  It's significant that he published those initial books in a four-year period.  In the eleven years since then, he has completed two books, both of which were disappointments to many readers.The previous installment, A FEAST FOR CROWS, improved on a second reading.  Except for the sequences with Brienne, AFFC had brisk pacing and plenty of plot.ADWD is much longer, and feels really, really long.  I got about halfway through and felt like nothing had really happened.  With the first three books, I couldn't put them down.  I took time off work and read for hours at a time, unable to break away and get interested in anything else.With ADWD, by contrast, I actually starting looking forward to finishing it.  I was constantly flipping ahead to see how many pages were left in the chapter I was reading, and came very close to skimming in several places.  By the end, I wanted more, but that's because the story was finally getting exciting, and I knew I'd be left hanging.There is just too much detail, too many incidental characters, and no real sense of events coming together.  It's more a collection of linked vignettes than a novel.  Martin is casting his net too wide; many of the subsidiary characters would be better dealt with in a series of short stories that could be published separately.  Dorne, the Ironborn, and Brienne would be good candidates for this treatment.However, Martin wants to include everything, and this more than anything else probably accounts for the long time it's taken him to get this far.  He has so many balls in the air that it's difficult to focus.  This book is a vast, sprawling, out-of-control mess that needs a good editor.  I half-expected to see a POV chapter entitled:  "THE KITCHEN SINK".Hopefully, if he's able to regain control of his material, he'll be able to finish the next book before Doomsday, and he can start bringing the disparate threads of the plot together.
3 Just like everyone else, I have waited a long time for this book. I didn't cry, hibernate, send hate mail or moan about the wait. I'm not a writer, have no aspirations to be one or know the difficulties involved.  That being said, I do read, a lot, a really huge amount of the printed word, on paper goes into my head on a daily basis. I feel that this book was more than half, nothing but filler, fluff, and crap. Just being paid by the page, were you George?  So much of this book was repetitious, inane, boring, hey didn't we just cover that?, nonsense.  Need I go on? No, I needn't.  I am not being paid by the word.  A book that I was anticipating eagerly, which should have been devoured in under two days, took me the better part of a week, it was so boring. Perhaps George or I will live long enough to see the end of the series, perhaps not.  I've found with this last installment, I really don't care about the series anymore.  If and when it comes out, I'll put it on hold at the library.
5 Incredibly well written and suspenseful! Great follow-up to previous books in the series. Can't wait for the next one to see what happens!
2 I was going to give three stars because of the first three books, how could I give this book only two, but when you look at it there is no resolution to anything. a story spun out so that the dragons can grow is about all it comes down to.Throughly disappointing, 900+ pages and no ending to anything. It seems as if George and his editor sold out to Hollywood back in Feast for Crows.I will not be rereading this and it has put me of rereading the first three, hell I may even have to let my friends know how bad it is.George your not getting any younger I suggest a new editor, one that will put you back on track. Let the next book be the finish of it, sell the franchise if you want money, and write something else cause this Game has been played out.
5 I so enjoy these books. This style of book is one of my favorite genres. Mr Martin takes so long between books, but in my opinion they are worth the wait!
4 SPOILERS: After the previous books abysmal existence, I still had faith going into the fifth book of "A Song of Fire and Ice" series. Now that this mammoth book has been read, I still have faith in the series, but it is very microscopic at this point.The only good news really about this book is that my two favorite characters are back, Tyrion and Daenerys. It was their stories that really kept me going and even with them in it, all the other fillers put me to sleep on more than one occasion. I honestly don't care about Jon any more, but it seems Martin may have killed him off anyway (another thing I hate, all these cliffhangers, with no answer on whether people actually die or not). Davos's story didn't really have an ending; in fact I don't think he made an appearance after 400 pages. Same with Bran, don't really know where his story is going, I think he lacks any more appearances after 450pages. I believe Martin forgets to add more chapters about the said characters above when he writes his books. By the time the book gets published he says, "Oops, forgot to add more stuff on Bran...and Davos. Oh well."At the end of this book, the same for the previous one, all the characters take one step forward, but by the end of it, they've taken three steps back. If the series still has two more books before the end, I honestly can't see how Martin is going to finish the tale, unless he just kills off everyone at the end in a spectacular blood bath. He is not going to give the fans what they want, I fear, and that is exactly how Charlaine Harris's career ended for me with her Sookie Stackhouse series. I even had the tiniest amount of sympathy for Cersei and Theon in the end. Shame! Shame on you Martin!The rating is four stars, but just barely, and perhaps only because the first three books were phenomenal. Let's hope with the release of the sixth book in Gods know when, the percentage of the series doesn't get reduced down to 50/50.
2 Why oh why doesn't George Martin bring the series to a conclusion rather than spinning out more and more meaningless subplots?  A Song of Ice and Fire started out with interesting characters and a compelling storyline--I thought the first 3 books were amazing.  Unfortunately it got stuck and went from fluid to frozen.  Maybe that is why the Stark's motto &#34;Winter is coming&#34; has always been so prominent--the author was warning us that the story would become frozen before it was finished.I hope the next books bring life back into this originally interesting series. If not they will just add more confusion to a series that has become tedious and boring.
5 I completely enjoyed this book.  How much you enjoy it will depend a lot on what you, as a reader, look for in a novel.  This is a rich, detailed story and it spends a lot of time on building the world and its characters.  It is true that the overarching story of the series progresses little in this installment, and if that is the main attraction for you, then you are going to be frustrated by this book.  I totally understand.  Many people were hoping certain long-running questions might be answered, such as Jon Snow's parentage, or that the looming threat of an invasion by the Others might begin.  Instead this book gives us questions and cliffhangers, and a lot of character journeys that never quite reach a destination.  But if what you come to this story looking for is a wonderfully textured part of a longer journey, then there is so much here to appreciate and love.After reading A Feast For Crows, where we were only treated to half of the character perspectives, this novel picks up at the end of A Storm Of Swords, telling us the other half of the story.  This is the story of Jon Snow, Tyrion, and Daenerys.  But there are other stories here too, and some even more interesting than these "main" characters.  I found myself unexpectedly cheering on a character that previously I had nothing but loathing for, and watching with fascination as the other players make their moves in the grand scheme of the story.Up on the Wall, Jon Snow has been named the 998th commander of the Night's Watch.  After centuries of fighting the dangerous people known as the wildlings that live north of the wall, Jon begins to reach out to them in peace as the threat of a far greater enemy draws ever nearer.  His unpopular decisions strain the Night's Watch, even as King Stannis places ever greater demands on him in his attempt to unify the North under his rule.  I was very fond of Jon Snow's chapters.  He has never been my favorite character, but he's one of the most honorable men in Martin's world.  But as a leader, he is forced to make gray choices in an attempt to save lives, and maybe the entire realm.  His arc has been more interesting since his time among the wildlings, and never more than now.In the east, Tyrion flees his sister's wrath and makes his way toward the rumored "Dragon Queen" Daenerys.  Since the beginning of the series, Tyrion has always had his noble family name and wealth at his back; now stripped of these, he is forced to make do as just another dwarf in a world where the strong have no use for the weak.  Along the way he will uncover a secret that may well unbalance the entire game of thrones in the west.Daenerys now rules in the east, but her rule is a fragile one.  She has the might of an army and the only three living dragons in the world, but her attempts to end slavery have turned the hearts of the people against her.  She tries to become the leader she was born to be, but discovers that the cost of a crown is a dear one.  I was hoping to see a little more movement in Dany's chapters, but the character frustrates me sometimes, much as I love her.  Her quest to regain the throne of Westeros has stalled.  But her struggles had my whole attention, even as I wished she had a certain cynical dwarf around to give her an irreverent hand with things.  Her dragons are growing.  No longer are they the cute, mascot-characters of the series.  With one horrifying moment they are revealed to be true monsters, perhaps beyond control.  Dany also gets the absolute best moment in the story, which I'm not going to spoil for you here.The writing is excellent, as always.  This is a story for people who like their fantasy worlds with lots of detail.  Nowhere is this more apparent than in the characters themselves.  I mentioned earlier that a certain character I used to hate had my love this time around.  I won't tell you who it is, but his story was probably the most emotionally compelling of the whole book.  Even more than the world, with its dragons and magic and undead terrors, Martin's characters are what shines in his stories.  Even the ones you hate have you watching their arcs with fascination, unable to look away.  (Roose Bolton and particularly his unholy monster of a son are terrific villains, the kind you just keep watching and waiting for them to get what they deserve.)For a book that is criticized for not progressing the story very much, a lot happens.  The dragons that used to be almost cuddly become real horrors.  A young princess continues her dark training.  A once-proud prince tries to rise from the ruin his life has become.  An old knight tries to solve a deadly mystery.  A priestess does whatever she can to aid the one she believes will fulfill an ancient prophecy.  Jon Snow tries to make peace with the wildlings in the face of a greater evil.  Dany rules as a stranger, seemingly turning her back on her destiny.  A prince and a pirate both journey along different paths in search of the dragons and their beautiful queen.  Tyrion also seeks out the young queen, in the hope that she will help him achieve his own vengeful purpose.  A couple of Freys get exactly what they deserve in one of the book's subtler moments.  A young boy journeys into the deep north, led by a dead man.  And a master manipulator finally shows his hand.  There is also a lot of action and mayhem, love and death.  Not a single page is wasted, if you can appreciate it.  And I think you will.If I was ranking this among Martin's other books, I would probably put it somewhere in the middle.  It is much better than A Feast For Crows, but not quite at the level of A Storm Of Swords.  And for the most part, it is telling the other half of the story in A Feast For Crows, so not every character I love made an appearance this time around.  This makes it feel a little incomplete, in that parts of the story are being ignored.  But the story it does tell is so richly told and engaging, that I really didn't miss the rest that much.  And in a pleasantly surprising move, the stories start to catch up to each other near the end, so a few unexpected characters make appearances, for which I am very thankful.  (Happily, even my favorite character showed up for a couple of chapters, which I didn't think was going to happen this time around.)  If I were reviewing this book in comparison to the rest of the series, I would probably give it 4 or 4 and1/2 stars, since it is not the best, but still very good.  And there are moments in it that rival the best moments in the entire saga.  But when I compare it to the rest of the books I've been reading this year, and to fantasy literature in general, then it stands far enough above what's out there that it deserves nothing less than 5 stars.  It's a great book.  Not the best in the series, but an imperfect novel in this series still stands above almost anything else in fantasy you are going to read this year.  This is easily the best work of fantasy I've read this year, and I don't expect it to be surpassed until Martin releases The Winds Of Winter next summer (I can dream, can't I?).  It is a beautiful chapter of a terrific fantasy epic, and I loved it.Final Grade: A-
4 Bought it in hardcover, but it is so large that I went with a Kindle edition because I couldn't hold it for long enough to read.  Sometimes Martin's near obsession with endless goofy names and a parade of seemingly random characters is exasperating and appears to add needlessly to the length, but stay tuned .. by golly, it all comes together in the end, and what an incredible tale he tells!  You've never been anywhere like the Seven Kingdoms, and never will, not even in your own imagination, outside of this remarkable saga.  To say that it has everything, and more, is an understatement.  And there is a tremendous sense of accomplishment when you are done .. &#34;I finished Ice and Fire&#34; .. something akin to having joined a special club, the Mt. Everest Pinnacle Climbers.  Of course no one starts with book five, so you know all of this anyway.
5 This book continues the great saga of a world at war.  There are so many main players that it is a difficult book to set aside for a week and then continue without having to think, "now who is this again?"  There are many minor charactures that Martin follows who he then kills off one way or another only to replace them with another minor characture.  Not that the main players are safe as we found out with the young wolf and his father a couple of books back.  The breadth of this novel is truely remarkable.  The charactures are endearing.  The story is facinating.  This is not a stand alone book!  Highly recommend this series.
5 George R. R. Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire series never fails to whisk me away to another world. I get so wrapped up in it. A Dance With Dragons is no different from the previous books in its ability to do that. I'm by no means a literature critic, I just enjoy a great book every now and then. This is raw, brutal, and fantastic.
5 Great books for summer or any time reading ....Love the way he moves through the various chapters and story lines. I have only one book left to read in the series, with the next book due out in 2017 and the last one in 2023!!
5 Martin pulls one surprise after another and man a great many shockers in the last 100 pages. Bring the 6th book out please - can hardly wait
4 In some ways not satisfying, as it feels a bit like a bridge between two novels, it is well executed, and left me wishing for the next installment.
4 I want to hate this series, but alas, I couldn't put this fourth book in the series down until I turned the last page.
4 In all fairness, the last book was good, but there were no Dany or Tyrion chapters (two of my favorite characters). Dance of Dragons brings you up to date with them as much as one can get up to date with any of these characters.
5 I can't wait for the next one to come out!! I hope that certain people are still alive in the next one!
4 A Dance with Dragons by George R.R. Martin, a Kindle book I read while, yup, taking a roadtrip to Yellowstone Park, particularly during longer spans of driving around mountains to avoid the urge to look vertigo-ishly off the edge.Being I last read a Martin book months and months ago and finished off the second season of the HBO drama a week or two before, I didn't think I was going into this book too unassisted, but it still took me a couple chapters to readjust and realize who's in the book and who isn't, what timeframe this all is happening in, and if people have really met their demises or not (word to the wise/fans of this series - never take the &#34;The sword came down and then the world went black&#34; phrasing at the end of someone's chapter to heart). This latter bit of info worked against me while I was with my boyfriend in the car and I'd blurt out something or swear and he'd, in his HBO-drama-only knowledge of the books, say, &#34;What? What happened?&#34; and I'd give away information that won't happen for a season or two. Somehow, he still let me stay in the car.
5 I hope it won't be another 5 years for the next book!  Martin knows how to keep his audience entralled
5 but it's still 5 stars.  Now... if GRRM would get the last couple books done with, I can rest.  Just don't croak on us before they are done please!!!!
5 It is written as well as the earlier books ... and you never know what's going to happen next (or who's going to survive to the next chapter).I hope Book Six is out in a reasonably timely fashion
3 The story rambled and left you hanging at the end.  I think the author got burned out with the story and just wanted to end it.
2 Having now finished reading all five volumes of A Song of Ice and Fire, I find myself frustrated, like many others, at the glacial pace (how ironically appropriate) of the plot development, or at least any significant plot development.  For make no mistake, George Martin has a unbridled penchant for weaving interminable plot expansion  with infinite character development until your ready to scream "Enough!"  Yet somehow it manages to hold your interest through five thousand some pages, though that interest in now being sorely tried as things drag on and on and on.I am also beginning to tire of the horrific world Mr. Martin has created.  It appears to have no redeeming social, moral or other value other than titillating one's libido or vicariously satisfying one's blood lust.  It is next to impossible to really like or identify with any of the main characters with the possible exception of Jon Snow and Arya.  This contempt, or is it cynicism disguised as realism, certainly separates Martin from the likes of Tolkien and Brooks and most other fantasy writers of note.  It does work in the first three books, but is beginning to wear by volumes 4 and 5.  One begins to hope the dragons will level the whole fracking place!
5 I don't know how I'll be able to wait another 2 + years for book 6.  This book leaves you with so many cliff hangers!
4 This book is by far not the best in the Game of Thrones series, but it was still good. It did drag in parts, and I did struggle a bit to finish it, but I did. Oh John Snow, what ever will we do without you? And Cersei, you were so humiliated, but you totally deserved it. I do think that Cersei is just putting on a good girl face and will come back with vengeance in the next book (If it ever gets written). Get on it GRRM! I put too much time into this series to get left hanging!
1 I consider myself "ripped off" after receiving this book. I should NOT have pre ordered...will not make this mistake again. This book seems to be edited out material that was thrown together to take advantage of the huge interest generated by the HBO series. I doubt the author ever meant to finish this series but saw the huge paycheck that he would get if he churned out another book. Last book I will buy from this author and last book I will ever preorder.
5 So sad to have finished this book! Great read! Cannot wait for George Martin to finish writing the next book
5 What can I say? In the may came a masterpiece, the quality of the book is really good, a hardcover that "feels good" to have and cary arround. The work of Martin is awesome as allways, the world, the characters, all is great. Waiting for the winds of winter.
4 A little slower in the beginning but it all comes together nicely in the end.Excited to see what happens next - in a few years from now ;)
5 This book brings together so many of the loose threads from the end of Book #4.  I was disappointed in the turn of events for some of my favorite characters, but others live on & the struggle continues.  For me, it's always difficult to wait for the next book to be written.  At least the series is back w/ Season 3 - even tho the books give you so much more detail & insight into the lives of each of the characters.  Waiting for Book 6!!
5 I love this whole series. Yes, there are a lot of characters to keep track of, but the story is about a war of seven kingdoms, so I think that the amount of characters keeps it realistic. Martin does a good job of reminding us who these characters are (if we tend to forget) thorough conversations with other characters. I was also very happy to see that my favorite characters were back- tyrion, jon, arya! Can't wait to see what happens on book six!
5 I haven't finished the book so far but it is the fifth book in A Game of Thrones, and has so far met all expectations.  These aren't the great books ever written, but they aren't the worst either, and are very entertaining.
4 The 5th book wasnt what I expected, enjoyed reading it and couldnt put it down cant wait for book 6
3 Again, nothing happened! You can't have a thousand page book with only a few major things happening. I am frankly slightly nervous where ASOIAF is headed at this point. Taken by themselves, book 4 and 5 are reasonably entertaining reads, but back to back they have to be given a very anxious asterisk that they might be a harbinger of a drop off in the series. To me it seems like Martin has one huge plot point that he's pushing off because there won't be much to write after it happens (cough...winter...)We'll see. I still love the series, but I was ultimately disapointed with this most recent one.
3 "A Dance with Dragons" is the long anticpated fifth book in the series "A Song of Ice and Fire". Overall, I enjoyed the book. I think it is a notch below the first three books in the series and on-par with the fourth book, which I also rated three stars. I personally think a strong editor could have cut the slow parts observed in both books and produced a single, solid book to tell the story.Most likely people reading this review are familiar with the story line by now, so I'm not going to go into the details of what takes place in this book. I will note the reasons I ranked the book down two stars.I ranked it down one star because it felt like the story really dragged at times as it spent so much time in Mereene, but nothing really happened there. Dany's dragons got bigger, but we didn't progress the story much. It seemed like this entire portion of the story was in a holding pattern while other parts of the story progressed.I ranked it down a second star because Martin is going to the well a few too many times with characters that are dead (or appear to be dead) coming back to life. I wouldn't be surprised if Eddard Stark somehow rises from the dead or makes a ghost appearance in a future story!One other annoyance/surprise was Martin further complicating the plot with the introduction of a completey new set of characters to compete for the crown. It will be interesting how he ties all of these plots together, and I am hopeful it won't take another long wait before we find out what lies ahead for the Seven Kingdoms!
4 As some have already started this book I a lot of filler.  That however does not make it a bad read.  It's still enjoyable but in the end the cliff hanger leave you dying for more.
5 I have read the 1st 4 books in the series and couldn't wait for this book. They are long and have so many characters but I still love them. The fact that you have to wait from chapter to chapter and book to book makes the books very hard to put down. I love books that take me back to my bed several times a day to read and this one does that.
5 I have my own imagery of the world but the more I read about the show the more I think I'll watch it...but reading the books, well, do read them and enjoy the show all the more.
5 Wow is one word if I want to describe my feelings after finishing A Dance with Dragons!!  You get to travel with your favorite characters that you love (or love to hate) through remarkable journeys that take your breath away. Your favorite characters dissapoint you (again) with bad decisions. The characters you hated surpise you making you feeling bewildered and confused about them. You meet less recognized characters that now play important roles in the development of the story. You get to know more about different people, exotic places, and cultures; about mysterious Children of Forrest and Giants. ....and much much more. This book is almost magical. I loved it and cannot wait to see what happens in the next book.
2 I would have to say it is worth waiting until they drop the price to 8.99. Really, it is not a must read.
5 Gosh, this series is just one of the best things I have ever read in my lifetime.  You will miss alot if you watch the series (excellent as well), you must do both!
4 A Dance with Dragon is a sprawling tome of epic proportions that further expands the A Song of Ice and Fire universe but does not provide any resolutions to the plethora of dangling plot threads from the previous books. It helped reading Dance with Dragons on the heels of A Feast for Crows since gave me a clearer picture of the parallel story arc. Yet with so many pending questions, cliffhangers, resurrections, and prophecies, A Dance with Dragons felt  fragmented and unfocused. I was especially frustrated that Dany and her dragons seem to be perpetually stuck in political quagmire. I really hope with the next book that Dany and the dragons get moving, I'm sick to death of the stagnant Meereen storyline. I want to know who will ride the three dragons for the second dance with dragons.Nevertheless, I found myself fully engrossed with the intrigues of the feudal medieval world of Westeros and it was good to see some favorites characters again. I especially enjoyed the aftermath of scheming, power-hungry Cersei's public humiliation and I was blown away with the revelations of Varys true motivation. At this point, there are still a handful of characters left that I hope and root for (Daenerys, Bran, Jon Snow, Aegon, Arya, and Davos). I also want to stick around in case the Lannisters, Boltons, and Freys will get their comeuppance sooner rather than later. Now I join the long line of waiters for the sixth book in the series, The Winds of Winter, and hope that the next book will move towards a coherent, ultimate ending.
5 another excellent book in this series. Im in awe of how Martin weaves so many different strands together and keeps track of so many characters and plots. I do hate how he keeps killing off my favorite characters though and I'm annoyed that I will have to wait ages for the next book.
5 George R.R. Martin writes an excellent story and I can't stop reading his books.  He certainly knows how to bring out the emotions of his readers by the actions that take place with the characters he creates.
5 The only disappointment was that the story is not yet finished
5 Arrived within a day - and a brand new copy.  We are totally into the series. And since it is a large book we can now take our time reading. Sent the library book back.
5 Great series - leaves you wanting more!
5 George Martin has left us hanging and we don't know when we will see the next book about "the game of thrones" so badly played by so many people.  Great ending to this one and now we must wait for the next one before we know what will happen.  I hear he is busy writing it -
5 I had read a review of this volume that Saud paper was wasted, nothing happened, especially with Tyrion, but this long volume went quickly as I rushed to keep up with each character.  Some sad endings, but it's the game of thrones.
3 I had a lot of trouble getting into this book. My favorite characters to read about are Dany, Sansa, Arya, and Brienne, and Dany was the only one of those featured for the majority of the book. Martin also added many new characters, and I wasn't able to form attachments to any of them. If you're going to add new characters to a work that already has so many, they need to be interesting right away. Overall, this was definitely my least favorite book in the series, but I did enjoy it more towards the end.
3 I waited a long LONG time for this book to come out. I can say, I am not disappointed. Martin is a brilliant story teller. His descriptions and characters and world creation are amazing. However, after waiting so very long for this book, I was looking forward to, and even requiring, some resolution. There isn't any, and not only is there no resolution, but we are introduced to more characters and more plot lines. The story feels like it is too short.The characters are still the best portrayals of real people I've ever read. There are very few straight up villains (you know the kind - those that are bad just to because they are bad). Each characters has a history, a present and a future, their actions and reactions are utterly believable and in character. They grow and change and sometimes diminish. People who are detestable in one book are sympathetic in the next, and vise verse. But, as in his other books, Martin is not nice to his characters, in that they don't all live, and they certainly don't always get what they want or what they deserve. This book is no exception. My mother started reading the first book, and when one of her favorite characters was killed, flatly refuses to read any more. After many of us have come this far through all the books and all these years, be warned, not everyone lives to see the end.And, as with the previous book, this book does not include all the characters. This book, and the one before, were the same timeline split up amongst the characters. Although, I did not feel that each character gave anything to the story, meaning they did not all further the plot line. I felt like their chapters were just thrown in just because, just because I guess to get all the characters in. Jamie and Brianne get s very small, and virtually meaningless, showing. Cerasi gets some small play. Arya gets a very small part that has one small addition to the furthering of the plot, but added nothing to the greater scheme of things. Minor characters such as Theon, Asha and Stannis get big parts, but essentially go no where and I really couldn't care less about them. Jon and Tyrion and Dany have parts, but they are basically meaningless meanderings without resolution or growth. There are new characters introduced, or at least they seemed new to me but may have been more minor characters given grander roles (at the expense of already developed and loved characters) without delivering anything worthwhile in the end. Old characters seem to be in stasis or in a holding pattern, waiting for the plot to reach a certain point (or not since the plot seems to have frayed). I would have preferred Martin to leave people out if they have no part to play and allow more room to finish some of the more pertinent plot lines - and deal with more interesting, much loved, and existing characters.The plot had a lot of fluff and nonessential (often tedious and boring) added descriptions weather they be about food, history, or myths. I don't recall the others books have whole paragraphs about food or history, kingdom relations or myths. There were some pages I flat out skipped, which I don't ever recall doing in the previous 4 books (even during re-reads). And, as another reviewer pointed out, there is a lot of sailing, these people are sailing, then those people are sailing and then these people are sailing AGAIN!! And, the same goes for marching. And scouting and searching. I really felt like much of this could have been cut and more of the real plot lines put onto the end. There were some sections and some character chapters that left me thinking - well, what was the point of that?? Previous books had forward momentum and development for each character every time. Nothing extraneous was included.  In Dance with Dragons, some characters have one or two chapters that really have nothing to say, or give just a hint of something that never takes shape and then are never seen again. Perhaps in the next book, some of it will have meaning, but why does it need to be included now? To take up space and try to fit into my memory banks, when it could be included later when its necessary to the plot and makes more sense?Overall, it was an okay read though this book seems to suffer from bloat and fluff and meanders lost. The characters and plot weren't horrible. I enjoyed much of it. Though, i kept looking at the completion bar on my Kindle, watching it move up and up, and waiting for something to happen. In the beginning, I kept thinking, I'm only at 15% or 30% or 40%. there's still time for it to get really good! But, it never happened. When I looked down and saw I saw at 85%, my heart literally sank. At that point, I knew there was no saving this book. There was no pulling out of the nose dive.And then, it just ended, without resolution of any kind, without a satisfactory climax, without regard for characters, plot, or us readers. It did not feel like an entire book, but more like a prelude. The other books were all massive as well, and there are plot line that continue on and on and morph and change, but every book just felt like a complete story in itself.  Each ending was a crescendo that left me satisfied and wanting more. This one does not. The ending is a slow decline and a fizzle.  It seems as if the book just got too long, and was just ended with no thought to resolution or timing or plot, or us readers. And the cliffhangers, well, all I have to say is, blah. They aren't cliffhangers so much as chopped off lines left dangling. Honestly dangling, chopped plots, bloated descriptions and fluff filler just seems like lazy writing to me. I felt as if we readers were simply paid lip service. I am not a mindless, escapist reader looking for cheap entertainment. Cheap, light entertainment is what I was reading while I wait for books like the previous installments of Song of Ice and Fire from authors like Martin, and there aren't many like either the series or the author. I was disappointed and a little insulted reading Dance with Dragons.The book was worth reading, well, I could not have passed it by lets say that, and I think there are important happenings to lead into the next book (though very few). I am glad I read it, but wish it would have been worth the $14.99 I paid for the Kindle version, and I wish I could have at least some of my weekend back . . .UPDATE:  I just read a comment made by Martin that Amazon reviews, negative ones, are from sock puppets and trolls. I bought this book and all the previous books, and have read every one, often more than once. This review is from a actual reader and honestly a fan (for the most part).
5 Best one so far!  I can't wait until the next one comes out.  I hope it is soon.  I want to see Cersei get hers!!
4 of Game of Thrones.  This book was not as pleasing as the others.  Characters were drawn out and there was little cohesevisness and this author wondered if there was even a plot at this point.  To be hones I was disappointed with George Martin.  He seemed to struggle to get the words on paper for this one,
4 I liked how this fifth book was a compilation of a different viewpoint from the characters and a continuation of the story from all points of view after. With all that being said it really didn't serve to move the story along.  There seemed to be a great deal of filler information throughout with the overabundance of narrative description of clothing, scenery, and food.There were still some parts of the book that I had trouble getting through, mainly Aisha Greyjoy, Quentyn and Davos.  Another thing I did not like about this book is that new points of views keep popping up from various characters.  It's like the Greek Mythology Hydra in writing; Martin is cutting off one head when a million more sprout up.Martin does an amazing job of dealing with the realities of war and the aftermath it causes.  Also, the political stratosphere and how one mistake or decision can change the course of everything.
3 This installment of GoT was terribly hard to muddle through. The entire book could have been a prologue to an actual, meaty, important novel.A lot of drawn out story and not much action at all.
4 Many surprises, too many loose ends.  Anxiously awaiting the next installment.  Please don't take too long for the next book.
3 As everyone else has already stated, the first three books were incredible...seriously, they were genius.  A Feast for Crows was entertaining, if somewhat slow in parts. However, A Dance With Dragons seemed to have a stagnate plot. I finished the book thinking "that's it?" It wasn't that the entire thing was slow or boring, but the problem, as others have already mentioned, was the introduction of seemingly irrelevant characters that did nothing to advance the story line. Another problem with these new characters is that it made the story hard to follow. They would show up, do virtually nothing, only to never appear again or only appear briefly. I wish more was focused on the original characters. I thoroughly enjoyed the Arya and Cersi chapters, although they were few and far between. Dany's story line was almost a chore to read in some parts. Anyway, long story short, and trying not to repeat what others have already stated, this was far too long and introduced far too many characters which made it hard to follow. The book should have been about 400-500 pages as opposed to 1000.
5 So goodSo much to wait forSo much to find outSo many intertwined storiesplease hurry George and please stay in good health
3 *SPOILERS AHEAD*I was prepared for the worst while reading this, based on some of the reviews, but it isn't as bad as people make it out to be. It's true that a 'bad' GRRM book is much better than most out there. Still, I can't help but feel disappointed that there's very little plot advancement after yet another 1,000 pages and hours of reading. The first thing the reader will notice is that the book begins about halfway through Feast for Crows and those who are dead are not and events that have happened are still to come. It can be a little disorienting at first, and a bit of a waste of time.There are three main issues I have with the book.. the first is the shock of main characters dying has worn off because, well, they don't stay dead. So anyone who dies might still come back and haunt the rest of the book. Character deaths therefore lose their punch; I keep waiting to hear about Robb leading another host. The second issue is the rush of new characters. Aegon, really? The Prince of Dorne? Are they necessary? Why do we care? And therein lies my biggest critique -- we've emotionally invested in the characters only to see to them killed off, marginalized, and/or supplanted by new ones. Tyrion is probably the most glaring example of this. He still seems to have the smarts that made him a central force through the first couple books, but here, he's a shell of himself, a caricature of himself, and half of his travels are wholly unnecessary if they did away with the Dorne subplot. And Jon........I'll finish the series if GRRM sees fit to finish it. And I recommend the book but didn't feel the need to power through with sleepless nights. Not that there's any rush, anyway.. there's no timetable on the next one, so pick your way through the world and settle in for a long ride.
5 The series continues, and does not disappoint. Still largely unpredictable, heartbreaking, and exciting as well. Waiting for the next book will be painful.
3 Resentments are brought on oneself, most often.  I bought this book after going through "A Feast of Crows" and re-reading A Clash" and "A Storm," suffering through the interminable waiting.  I, like many of you, was happily excited on learning that "A Dance" had hit the bookseller's shelves.  But then, now about half way through the book, the expectations have turned to resentments.  And some of this resentment can be fairly laid at the foot of Mr. Martin.If I met the author on the street my question to him would be, "Why are all your characters in "A Dance With Dragons," stuck in aspic?  Why are they all seemingly incapable of getting anything done?  They go here, they go there and back to there and here again like music CD's permanently set on "repeat."Maybe it is just moi but I don't think so, as other reviewers have touched on the same frustrating development.  Is it because a decision has been made to extend A Story of Ice and Fire to at least seven volumes, readers be damned, thus the necessity of stringing things out and out and out.For some unfathomable reason I guess my expectations concerning "A Dance With Dragons" were way off.  I had thought we would start to see some resolution for at least some of the characters.  Instead we get more Saturday afternoon matin&eacute;e.Alas!
5 I cannot even start a new book at this point because I am completely in love with George R.R. Martin's world. I will not give away any of the plot. This is the fifth book in an incredible series that is a MUST READ for fans of fantasy or historical fiction. Very graphic sex and violence. Be prepared to be immersed.
2 I never thought I'd be writing this review. I once considered myself a fervent fan of the A Song of Ice and Fire series. I started reading the series about a decade ago, when it consisted of three novels. Since then, GRRM has managed to add a grand total of two books. The plot's forward momentum has ground to a halt as beloved, well-developed characters are unceremoniously killed off and replaced with vapid, one-dimensional pawns who are coldly maneuvered on the ever-shifting chessboard of Westeros (and now the Free Cities).It's not hard to say what went wrong. Martin, quite simply, pulled a Jordan. Too many characters, too many subplots; too little editing and focus on core conflicts. There's nothing offensive in comparing him to Robert Jordan: those who award 3 stars or less to this book are fans, or former fans, who wanted to see the series end as strongly as it began. We don't say this out of spite; we say it out of disappointment with something we once loved. We would not have read five books deep--including the mediocre A FEAST FOR CROWS--if Martin hadn't earned our devotion and good will by doing *something* right in those first three books.In two months I've read a quarter of ADWD and even that much required a massive effort of will. The plot is going nowhere. I am tired of reading about Davos, Daario, Griff and Young Griff, and all the other meaningless minor characters and subplots while Tyrion, Jon, and Dany spin their wheels. I'm tired of the once-fresh device of killing off sympathetic main characters turning into a gimmick. I'm tired of prose that reads like a dry travelogue of Old Valyria, listing the flora and fauna of the region, including types of river turtles, the precise width of bodies of water and their tributaries, and other similarly riveting subjects. At this point I'm just waiting for Martin to start describing the embroidery on a shawl or the cream color slashing a blue silk dress.I'm tired of hearing "the tale grew in the telling." It's an excuse. The tale didn't grow; the editing shrank.Martin is clearly floundering, unsure of how to proceed. As I read about Tyrion wallowing in self-pity, Dany losing her wits, and Jon bumbling around aimlessly, I can't help but see them as metaphors for their creator.Books 4 and 5 of ASoIaF should not have been written. Martin should've embraced the boldness that made him famous for beheading dear old Ned and made the jump to five years in the future. Skip the setup; cut straight to the good stuff. I hope Books 6, 7, and possibly (probably) additional titles will return to the glory of the original three, but I'm honestly not sure I'll be there to read them. The good will Martin built up with the first three books in the series has been systematically squandered with a decade's worth of waiting for the monumental disappointments that were AFFC and ADWD.Meanwhile, back to slogging through encyclopedia entries about Meereenese political customs and shipbuilding practices from the Narrow Sea region...
1 This book series began strongly, and I was definitely hooked. I burned through the first three in probably less than 2 weeks. I love the genre, and the characters really grew on me. I wanted to know where they (and the realm) would end up.What I began noticing, however, was that George Martin's writing tends towards being a whole lot of words about nothing. No furtherance of major plot points. No grand character arcs, as those who you hold onto tightest end up being killed off for nothing. It gets to a point where you don't care about any of them anymore, because who knows a)what the overall PLOT of the book is, and b)who will even be around 5 chapters later.Gag me if I have to read 20 zillion more pages about extraneous scene descriptions. I ended up skipping pages at a time because they consisted entirely of descriptive fluff. What else made my eyes roll? All the "turning his head and spat"s and "bit his/her tongue so hard he/she tasted blood"s. Talk about repetitive literary tricks. It's the complete opposite of the word 'creative'. Martin's writing is cliche and tired.I feel as though I wasted my time and money with A Dance With Dragons. Absolutely nothing gets resolved; as it was in A Feast for Crows, only more questions are raised. I was a fan, but now I'm definitely a hater. Heed my review and save your money. That day/week/whatever of your life you spend reading this garbage, you will never be able to get back.
5 At long last, we have DWD in our hands, ready to be read. Fortunately, the book was worth the wait.Some initial criticisms of the book have centered around the lack of resolutions given and the fact that most of the book is setup. Well, guess what--its a 7 book series. The book is not going to resolve anything. Martin has never written his books in an episodic fashion and he has used cliffhangers before, so I don't know where the hate is coming from.There are significant things that happen in this book, though I won't give away what. One is a big reveal/plot twist that I honestly never saw happening and it will definitely change things in Westeros.For specifics, the book focuses primarily on Jon Snow, Daenerys, and Tyrion. The weakest chapters are the ones focusing on Daenerys, as her character is mired with all the difficult choices that she faces. Her chapters aren't a pleasure to read, but I believe that's because Martin designed them that way--we're supposed to be frustrated by how Dany is handling things, just as we were supposed to be upset by Ned Stark's death in book 1. Most of the book is preparation--things are moving into place, setting the scene for the grand finale. In this sense, it is definitely a middle book.Martin's writing in general is very strong, other than his "must needs" quirk and the annoying "'It is known,' 'It is known'" saying. It really is just a pleasure to read, to see how he deals with characters, dialogue,and setting. In fact, I'm willing to say that within fantasy there isn't an author our there currently that can match him in that regard.In short, my clumsy, haphazard review is this: go buy it and enjoy it.
5 Imagine that if Tolkien had written The Fellowship from different perspectives and we had a chapter told by Gimli the Dwarf. That is what Martin does in A Dance with Dragons and the entire A Song of Ice and Fire. Even the villains get a chance to tell how they arrive at horrendous outcomes. This is another masterpiece.
5 I loved A Dance with Dragons. Yes, cliffhangers are frustrating when you know you may be waiting five years to have them resolved. Yes, 15% of the book is listing what's-for-dinner. Just remember that we wouldn't be so impatient if we didn't love these books, these characters and this world. When the series is over, we'll have it. The cliffhanger criticism will be moot. I have faith that it will be great. If you can't handle being challenged then I'm sure Charlaine Harris or Stephanie Meyer will be happy to take your book-buying dollar.
5 Scary, excellent reading, well written could not put it down towards the end - when is the next???  Hurry up, can't wait.
4 Similar to the other books in the series....a good read, but can be slow at times. GRRM goes into detail on the meals served, so don't read on an empty stomach.
3 I love the previous books and I felt that this was a bit of a let down. Despite having all my favorite characters in this book I found most of their stories very boring and stagnate with the exception to Arya's story.  The ending was pretty surprising though and I hope that the next book resolves some things and is a bit more exciting.
4 Not as gripping as the earlier volumes in the series, this installment at least restores many familiar protagonists after the disconcerting book four where we were confronted by many new faces and plot twists. There are plenty of surprises, plenty of shocks and of course anyone who has followed the saga to this point is naturally going to read on. The language/expression changes again, is a little inconsistent, but perhaps that is inevitable with books written years apart.There is also a considerable sense of padding and filling-in, but never mind, the tale is good and is moving forward and the best heroes are still around (or at least, so we hope!)
2 A great series has become merely tedious. It's long past time for these story lines to be brought to a close. This book is boring, dreadfully slow and not worth the effort. GRRM can take as long as he likes for the next installment, or better yet, never finish it. The first three books were brilliant, but these last two are a poor finish to what he started.Hopefully, HBO will bring in some fresher, younger blood to wrap up the series, lest all the actors die of old age meandering their way through this ponderous mess.
5 This book is great and when it rapidly picks up pace of events closer to the end, the actual end of the book feels like stopping at the cliff. You desperately want to know what happens the very next day with multiple story lines converging around one city, but you could not.I want to buy book 6.Except there is not book 6 yet. ;)
2 I loved the first three books in this series. But after a feast for crows, I was about ready to give up. Now, having read a dance with dragons, I do give up. This series could've been wrapped up a few thousand pages and several thousand trees ago. We are now hopping and skipping from character to character without any real advancement of plot. I no longer care what happens to any of these people. There are a few characters I might have still cared about, if anything interesting had ever happened in this book.In other words, if the next book ever comes out, I'm keeping my money and saving my time.
5 Soooo disappointed there is no book 6 or 7!  Sounds like another Auel in the making, waiting years for the next book.Still I will buy the third season video.
3 I remain appreciative of Martin's skill, but I've become exhausted with this series. I kept going with A Dance with Dragons - even though I found myself skipping large descriptive portions that I found indulgent and pointless - because I really hoped there was finally going to be some significant plot progress by the end. But there's not. 1000 pages and Daenerys is still not even bound for Westeros? New potential kings are still cropping up? We still don't know what's become of several Starks, the family we started this whole series with (and whom have been steadily tortured and destroyed in every way possible, with nary a sign of relief in sight?) It is just feeling so indulgent on Martin's part at this point. I am losing faith that there will be a payoff. I can't imagine what ending could possibly feel satisfying. There's a chance he could still pull it off, but I think he's just built anticipation too much, and tortured us as readers too much.And yes, he is still good at what he was always good at - creating a fully fleshed-out world that at this point we know like it's our own, and portraying the points of view of a dizzying array of characters. I don't think anything like it has ever been attempted, and I appreciate that. But enough already! Give us some beef...
4 I liked that book yet I found it quite long, all the conspiracies take too much place in the novel to my taste.
5 Love this book so far. Makes up for the fourth book, a great for crows.  Characters are great and I'm loving how different characters are entwined with each other
1 Words are wind, George, and you seem to like yours more than most. A ramble worthy of any mad Targaryen. Just finish the books, George.
5 I love where this seems to be heading, but DANG! Now I sit waiting with everyone else... For the next one!
4 In the end I just got tired of reading elaborate descriptions of disgusting food and torture. I waded through an awful lot of pigeon testicle pies and nipple amputations, and it just got too much. I read all the books through half of this one and I just love Tyrion and Arya and even Sansa.  Littlefinger is endlessly compelling.  The characters are just so indelible and if you can keep up with the plot you're a better person than I am.  Great stuff, but be prepared.
2 I would suggest skipping this book and just reading the cliff notes in preparation for the next.  Martin seems to need to tread water for a few hundred pages.  The books are beginning to read more like a history than a story.  Though I understand that Martin wishes to stress the uniqueness of the surprise and the minutia of everyday life, the two combine in this book to make reading a completely unrewarding experience.  It is either painstakingly describing a meal or sitting bored in a throne room or killing off characters by the handful.  It lacks the subtle balance of building and relieving tension.  It's just left to simmer.After awhile I stopped caring so much about the characters and the book became easier to read.  I felt unrewarded for my investments in characters or plot twists.There were also some odd mistakes.  For instance children only hungry for a few days were described with distended stomachs, while this actually occurs after malnutrition covering months or years.  Also in one paragraph a character is described with her hair up and the next it is falling around her shoulders.  I stopped keeping track after a dozen.I can't help but suspect this was a rush job and needed more tender loving care from an editor.
5 If you like the series, this sequel will not disappoint.  It's been some time since I read it but I believe he's not finished yet.
5 Marvelous book!The story of Westerios and the Free Cities and all its wonderful characters continued in the fifth book of this amazing series.I read all 5 books in a row and I'm really sad I can't pick up the next book and keep on reading till the story ends.I really hope George RR Martin won't take 5 years to finish the next book cause I wanna know what happens next as soon as possible!
5 As always, a pleasure to read...this last book leaves me wanting the next. The books ends with many issues impacting all of the characters in need of being resolved ..I'm very curious about Daenerys and Tyrion and  Jon Snow and Arya .... and the dragons!.  I am also curious about Theon an Asha..... and curious about the Others .Someone mentioned that they felt sorry for Cersi in this book - I have a feeling that the events that happened to her in this book will only spur her onto more evil and cruel endeavors in the futureI can't wait for the next book
5 A gripping read, with stories within stories that add to the richness of the tapestry Martin is creating.A must read for all fans of the series.Now to wait for book 6
5 Daenerys, Tyrion, Arya and Jon are my favorite characters. Please don't kill them off! POV from too many characters, including many that I do not care about, but of course, I still read it. This is a wonderful series and I suggest you start with book 1. Sci-fi, history, kings and queens, murder, incest, loyalty, and dragons all in one book.
5 The kindle version is great. No problem in that matter and the book is awesome. You can't just get enough. At the end you want to read the next. This collection is terrific. 100% reccomendable in all senses
5 I love the whole story of song of ice and fire. The author is brilliant and his detailed descriptions of all the characters and places keeps you glued to the pages. In this book, there are major events happening with Jon the wall and the wildings, Danny in Meereen and the dragons, and Stannis on his march and in Winterfell. Also one of our favorites tyrion and his misadventures and usual comic and amusing self. Not to mention new intriguing characters and twists but no spoilers will I reveal here.  It is a long book and there are some awesome cliffhangers so the story is not finished yet. Some people may find this annoying but I find it very exciting and eagerly waiting for the next book. In the meantime I am reading winter is coming which explains a lot of the mysteries and prophecies in the series in additions to tying it into history. What can I say I am just a real fan of Martin and his fantasy writing, although I consider myself a die hard history buff. It is amazing how I can enjoy something so different from history  but at the same time feels so real. It's all because of Martin and his story telling. So read on and enjoy!!
5 It's hard to stop reading this book. Can't wait for the next one to tie things together. But oh so much death...
5 A long wait has a way of raising expectations to levels that often cannot be met.This, however, is not the case with "A Dance with Dragons". It delivers the characters it promised to deliver (and more; I loved every one of the new POVs as well as the chapters reconnecting with characters from "A Feast for Crows") and it delivers the rich atmosphere, shocking plot twists and fascinating background details that make "A Song of Ice and Fire" a stand-out series. Martin is a master storyteller who isn't bound by genre or by conventions; some chapters are high fantasy, others are almost pure horror, and it all blends so very well.Admittedly, I was not one of those who was disappointed in the previous book, "A Feast for Crows". In fact, I rank it my second favourite, after "A Game of Thrones" but alongside "A Storm of Swords". Where would I place "A Dance with Dragons"? Narrowly below AFfC and ASoS and a fair bit ahead of "A Clash of Kings". In terms of stars, I would place all but ACoK at 5, with it somewhere around 4 or 4 1/2 if that existed.Those who didn't care for "A Feast for Crows" may find the first half of ADwD to be somewhat similar in tone and pacing and they may also find themselves less enamoured than I was with the new POVs. However, the build-up of the first half comes to several very strong (I hesitate to use the word "satisfying" because the emotions elicited by what happens aren't quite right for that) conclusions in the latter half.
5 I have loved all of the books in the series. I have been watching the series on HBO and tried hard to pace myself along with it.  I COULD NOT STOP MYSELF
5 It's a great book and I can't wait for the next one to come out. You learn so much more about the story line, characters, and plots when you read one of Martin's books. It was so funny when the last season ended and everyone who hadn't read the books was horrified when some of the main characters were killed off. Everyone who had read the books knew it was coming! READ the books they are great.
4 I loved the first 3 books in this series.  Four and five are more-or-less one book, and I can see why it is split this way, but I was starting to get a little confused and having trouble remembering where all the different characters and plot lines were at any given point in Dragons. I sort of felt as if the whole structure is beginning to wobble under its own weight.  Nonetheless, if and when #6 comes out, I will be in line with my credit card!
5 Great continuation of George R.R. Martin's Game of Thrones saga. The only disappointment was that I thought it was the last book of the series, and it ends with tons of plots that need to be finished. (This would be good news if the sequels were already written and published!) If the next book is not released soon, I will have to reread all of the previous 5 books to make sure I have all the characters and their movements down pat.
5 This was great but the saga is not finished he needs to write more books.  The dragons are still across the sea this needs to be finished there could be a lot more books.There is more of the story that should be revealed regarding a lot ofthe characters some of their fates are still left hanging.
3 The first for books were amazing.This one started off great.  But unlessthere is to be a sixth in the series, you'llbe left hanging.No mention of what happened to the main familycharacters except for those passed on.No mention of how or if their home was reclaimed.No mention if they lived happily ever after or not.Left hanging.  I want to know the end.
5 Warning Some Spoilers !!!I finally finished the book. I can breathe a sigh of well earned relief. I no longer have to worry about getting near the internet and accidentally reading a spoiler. All in all as usual, I am left unsatisfied by the book. Not because it lacks quality or because it lacks anything really. It is just that I wish more could have happened.I would happily trade  that useless page describing the Shield Hall for one more of Dany learning to ride her dragon. I would be ever so glad to to have spent a little more time with  Theon as he and Jeyne escaped Winterfell, rather than the massive pile of "back story" pages. I would desperately like to understand  "Where in the Sam Hell" the Arya Stark story is  going. That poor girl has been on a journey that deserves a rest,for crying out loud.Some of the reviewers are unhappy with the dead not staying dead. I agree with this. I would especially have liked to see Catelyn Stark stay dead. I understand that Martin won't ever be kind enough to let all my fovorite characters live. I accept that, but the "bringing back the dead ploy" is getting a little thin.  I never understood, nor agreed with Martin, that this should have been allowed. I am a little tired as well of some of the time wasting side stories. The prince that was not a Dragonlord but thought he was as an example. We could do with a lot more action from the main characters and he coulda just sunk that guy in the sea, for all his story did to advance the plot.Regardless of all those legitimate complaints, all is forgiven. This man writes better in a fog of haze and dragonblood than most authors could ever dream of doing. We should all recognize that Mr. George RR Martin is  a modern day writer of genius and classic quality. The likes of which, we are very lucky to have available to our generation and for generations to come.Now to just wait 6 years for another book.. SIGH
5 I was not expecting another in the series so I grabbed this one when I saw it.  It's been a long time since I finished the first four but I did not need to review to get caught up.  Thanks Mr. Martin for keeping this world alive.
4 I think I've been waiting for years for this one to come out on paperback!  I wanted the paperback-version so I could add it to my paperback-collection of the first 4 books! *grin*This wasn't my favorite of the 5 books because I'm a little bored with Daenerys' slow progressing storyline, but it was still a page-turner.
1 Given the expectations created by A Storm of Swords and AFFC, this book doesn't deliver.  I could write a longer review, but I don't want to pull a Martin and take 10 years writing it.
3 I want to start by saying that whenever I finish a book that I have questions about I look to Amazon reviews for insight and perspective.  And I find it, even when I disagree.  I glanced at the star rating for ADWD the day my copy of the book arrived; a mere day or so after the book was available; there were 300 reviews and the average star rating was 3.  When I finished the book and returned to Amazon to get insight and perspective, there were over 750 reviews.  It was telling that the reviews considered most helpful by readers were the 2 and 3 star ones written by people who loved the series and were disappointed in ADWD.  I agree with some comments about slow plot development; non-resolution of storylines; endless, irrelevant details, repetitions and cruelties; lack of critical editing; and the great Theon story arc.  I disagree with other comments, some of which I will address in the body of this piece, but my main focus is discussing ADWD and ASOFAI from another perspective.There will be SPOILERS--be so advised.AGOT begins at Winterfell with the Stark family awaiting Ned's good friend and king Robert Baratheon.  We quickly learn: Starks are our heroes; King Robert is good, but flawed; Lannisters are bad.  Fiercely loyal and honorable Ned, bringing his daughters with him, follows King Robert to Court.  At the same time, Ned sends his mysteriously origined bastard son off to exile at the ever cold Wall where men serve until death, taking no wives, fathering no children and getting their head cut off if they decide that that hard, thankless life isn't for them.  We gather he does this because his wife doesn't like being reminded of her husband's infidelity.Through-out AGOT, we accept that Robert Baratheon belongs on the Iron Throne because Mad King Aeyrs Targaryen was unfit to rule.  The one person who might have a better claim to the Iron Throne, Prince Viserys, is horrible.  Possibly less horrible than Prince Joffrey, but we never find out.  About the time Ned gets his head cut-off, Daenerys Stormborn brings magic back into the world.I think that the themes, progression and journey of the whole series are set out in the second book, ACOK, in two Daenerys POV chapters: 1) when Quaithe gives her advice and 2) when Daenerys visits the House of the Undying Ones.  I often return to the latter POV to get a sense of where the story is going.  This is the great reversal of the series; as it continues we learn that we were misled into believing that King Robert belonged on the throne, that he was good and the Stark family noble.  Robert Baratheon was a Usurper and his pal Ned Stark, a traitor.  The Iron Throne belongs to House Targaryen.  A digression here:  Ned's death was shocking, but not unreasonable: when a character is maimed--Ned's leg was surely gangrenous--and his story arc has no place to go, he is often killed off.The epic here with room for lots of battles, magic and characters is The Saga of How House Targaryen Got the Iron Throne Back, Ensured Succession and Saved the Realms of Man for Another Thousand Years.  That's the story I thought I was getting even through AFFC, but then GRRM spent the nearly 1000 page ADWD on minutia, with only the occasional pause for brilliance.  It is wonderful to spend time with favorite characters.  Yet when the real story hasn't even begun it seems wasteful to spend so many pages on turning Cersei into Lucretia Borgia; on everybody travelling endlessly on storm-tossed seas to some destination they never reach; on characters that start out interesting and then peter away or just disappear.  Remember Robert's bastards?  Why did we even care about Edric Storm, Gendry, Mya if the legitimacy of Cersei's children will become a moot point?  Why was the promising Brienne turned into Don Quijote, totally incompetent and incapable of accomplishing any mission--and why in the name of the Seven did GRRM maim her?  That is the problem with GRRM adding character upon character.  For R'hllor's sake, finish off some minor storylines before beginning others.The wonder of the series for me is the world GRRM has created.  Not just the cities and people that exist now, but the mythology.  The way this family and that trace their ancestry back to the Andals or the First Men.  Passing through the sea around Valyria, still boiling and deadly centuries after the Doom, an Atlantisesque volcanic eruption(?), gave me goose-bumps.  Tyrion's journey down the river is wonderful because Tyrion appreciated the ruins of civilizations that once were and no longer are: a marvelous lesson for any would-be royal adviser.  But when Tyrion fell off the boat saving Prince Aegon, he should have drowned.  Here was a character so full of self-loathing, who committed crimes so heinous that his story arc was irredeemable: his redemption and end should have come during that amazing scene through the Palace of Sorrow, as sad as it would have been to lose him.  Instead GRRM brought him back, gave him a personality transplant and Tyrion was re-born as an oaf better suited to the grotesquerie outside the walls of Meereen than as a royal adviser.  Some characters should just stay dead.I like how the petty concerns of men--who sits on the Iron Throne--contrasts with the real problem--the destruction of the realms of man--that waits at the Wall.  The Wall that we learn in ADWD was once manned by Knights and is now the domain of bastards, criminals and those Dickensian children people are always trying to get rid of in novels has its own mythology spanning millennia.  When the Westerosi utter the curse "May the Others take him" (a phrase I love hearing over and over), it's because there have been no Others for 1000 years.  A thousand years! Only Jon Snow sees the implication of the wilding flight south: if they are afraid of the Others, the entire realm is in danger, which is why his character is essential to the story.  A digression:  Melisandre has turned into the Aunt Clara of the priests of R'hllor; she sees things in the fire, but darn if she doesn't misinterpret them.  So if she thinks the children of the forest are bad, they are probably good.  Heck, she asks to see AA, gets Jon, and is annoyed by the vision.  Another digression:  I like that Jon's raven repeats itself.  Ravens do that.  And it is a way to get information to Jon (and us (through Bran?)).I think the character of Prince Aegon is an important addition.  In the scene in the House of the Undying Ones in ACOK, Dany sees Rhaegar, who we'll come to understand was a pretty decent guy, saying to a woman nursing a baby named Aegon, "He has a song....  He is the prince that was promised, and his is the song of ice and fire."  Many of us thought the woman was Lyanna and the baby Jon, but Lyanna died in childbirth after Rhaegar's death so it could never have been Jon.  The story needs Prince Aegon.  Not only because the dragon has three heads, but because if Mirri Maz Duur's curse is true, Dany will never have a living child and the story is incomplete without a succession plan for House Targaryen.  Up to this point, I had expected that the curse would be circumvented Macduff style where the baby is born dead, but comes to life after his stillbirth.  Having a second Targaryen (remember even if Jon is the third head, he is still sworn to the NW and can't become king or father legitimate children) as a compliment to Dany is a good thing.A word about the Stark children: they are our guides through the world of the series.  They are the small-folk whose rights get trampled when lords play the game of thrones (a phrase I hope never to see again).  Maester Aemon gave Jon some advice: kill the boy and let the man be born.  No one ever gave Robb that advice and he ended up dead as a result of his own irresponsible actions: marriage contracts should not be broken no matter how cute the girl.  I hope the remaining Stark children make it to the end of the series, but they have become witnesses and not actors (with the possible exception of Jon Snow, who might not turn out to be a Stark child after all).Some readers have commented that GRRM lost control of his story, ran out of drive or energy or wanted to run up the book count.  I thought that he just liked the world of the series and wanted to stay there for a while.  I understand; I have favorite characters that I like spending time with: Arya, Tyrion before his resurrection, Jon and Dany, but stories must have an end.  If it is no less than five years between books and GRRM plans at least three more, I worry one of us won't live long enough to get to the end.  GRRM has an advantage over me; he actually has an idea how the story turns out.  After reading Amazon reviews, I am worried that GRRM really has lost his way.  Otherwise, why would he have Jon, Tyrion and Varys do such stupid and uncharacteristic things for such stupid reasons?  I cut Dany some slack because she is very young and this is the first time in her life that she feels safe.I will wait for TWOW and hope that HBO pushes GRRM to bring it out in a respectable time frame.  I will hope that the Old Gods grant GRRM a tough editor who sets him on the correct path and that he stops maiming, humiliating, torturing and killing his good characters.  GRRM had his irresponsible would-be kings and their armies burn the fields of Westeros with Winter Coming.  People are already eating their dead--and it's only fall--so I guess my petition that he stop serving dogs, rats and the dead as entrees will go unfulfilled.  One reviewer thought that Tyrion is GRRM's alter ego---might I suggest Ramsey Snow?  I hope that the author of ADWD is reborn as the author of AGOT/ACOK/ASOS and that TWOW delights.
5 All these books are great, if a bit frustrating jumping from one character to another. That said, I can not wait for the next book- I've been through the available books in the series and am making do with the TV show.
5 INTRODUCTION: As I mentioned in other posts, there are only two authors that I regard as iconic in fantasy and one of them is George Martin since before A Game of Thrones appeared - and especially before it started taking off in the late 90's, early 00's - I found very little genre fantasy to read. I am not a Tolkien, Feist, D&D;, Jordan, Erikson, etc fan since I prefer my fantasy to be with little magic and closer to historical fiction - my main problem with magic is that it suffers from the "works at one clock, but not at two a clock" syndrome as well as the authors rarely exploring the implications on societal evolution of having unambiguous, "I can kick it" proof of mind's ability to influence matter directly, not through technology and science.Before AGoT, I knew about Mr. Martin from his awesome Sandkings novella which was one of the defining texts of my childhood that made me a lifelong sf fan, so intrigued by the blurb I bought AGoT on release and never looked back, while thinking, that, "yes, this is the fantasy I want to read". On the other hand I do not tend to agonize over unfinished series and I read the books as they come, so after A Feast for Crows and the rereads of the earlier three books in 2005, I kind of forgot about ASoIaF until this year's superb TV series put me back in a Westeros mood and I've reread the four earlier books.So very, very high expectations for A Dance with Dragons and after the first two reads, I have to say that the book while not perfect and quite transitional and expanding the story-lines rather than starting to pull them together as one would expect in a fifth out of seventh series novel, delivered more than enough to be my top fantasy of the year so far.In the following I will try to avoid major spoilers for the novel itself, though there will be of course major ones for the series up to AFFC and as befitting a novel of such huge scope with action taking place in many locales, lots of characters, etc, the "review" will be more of a collection of impressions and highlights, as well as some of the stuff I thought worked less well. As usual, whatever counts as spoiler for a person may not count as such for me, so if you have not read A Dance with Dragons so far, read what follows at your peril!OVERVIEW/ANALYSIS: The first thing that surprised me when reading A Dance with Dragons is that the book does not have the "each word counts" finished feel I expected after the very public six year struggle of the author with it; for the first 600 pages I felt like almost nothing happens as the big picture goes, just going back and forth to mark the time until the timeline gets to the end of A Feast for Crows and things can start happening; when things start to happen, yes the action is mostly awesome, but there is some silliness too.Now, "almost nothing happens" would be an indictment for many authors since it would mean bloated verbosity, but in GRRM's case, the world building, the character dialogue and the nuggets of action that we see are more than enough to make the pages turn by themselves and keep one absorbed.Yes, not all story-lines are equally absorbing and for me the North alternates between very interesting when we see the actions of various Northern lords, most notably the Boltons and lord Manderly in the new circumstances, while Stannis prepares to assert his rule and confront his enemies and the more boring parts of Jon trying to be "humane" and integrate the starving, fleeing wildlings with their historical enemies, the Night Watch whose commander he happens to be. Never a big favorite of mine, I have to say that "Lord Snow"'s arc is one of the best realized in the book and it will be a highlight for many.Or Tyrion's wanderings where maybe because of him being still in shock after the dramatic events of A Storm of Swords, he is far from the sharp operator we got to know and love and seems more like a comic relief persona thrown there to be blown away on the wind by whatever current is stronger at the moment. This was the part I was looking forward the most and maybe because of that, it was the most disappointing thread of the novel.The other main story of the novel, Daenerys' rule of Meereen is quite interesting though, even if it is not what what is generally assumed that happens in fantasy - where the destined one comes, conquers, snaps his/her fingers and all live happily ever after. No, here we see "reality": conquering with a strong army and better weapons is easy, but holding on what you conquer is very hard and requires sacrifices; this point of "is it worth to conquer hoping to give people a better life, only to realize that most want the lives they led before and having peace may mean compromising all you hold dear?" that we see repeated throughout history up to the present, is one that GRRM keeps making and as mentioned above there is no "out of jail card". I found this thread excellent and very realistic though I am sure that people wanting traditional fantasy will hate it the most.Daenerys' peregrination and decisions were simple so far - she acted true to her principles and despite hardships she has won - but now that she decided to actually rule, she faces two equally unheroic choices: bath Meereen in the blood of her enemies, including the hostages from her entourage that she came to like, or compromise with the slavers and their allies and allow a more relaxed form of what came before. And the way this dilemma plays through the book was to me one of the highlights of the novel; without easy choices, the author's handling of it was as good as possible within the constraints.Interspersed with these three main stories, there are a lot of other characters stories and those mostly work well, but here and there I was wondering at the structure of the novel and how quite a few of those (Bran and Cersei's chapters for example and maybe even Arya's) could have easily been included in A Feast for Crows since they are tangential to this book, while leaving space for expanding the intrinsic stories of A Dance with Dragons and sparing us the "unfinished feel" we get in the end, feel which the author clearly indicated was due for lack of space.A Dance with Dragons is not short on great lines and there are quite a few scenes that hold with the best to date in the series but I will leave that for everyone to discover them. For myself, besides the obvious ones, Cersei's arc was quite memorable for example especially still having clear in mind Lena Hadley's arrogant but great performance of the queen in the TV series...As for characters, for me the best one - in the heroic fantasy mode - was Ser Barristan who has several POV chapters and he is given ample scope to show why he is so famous after all. The most disappointing one was Tyrion as mentioned above.Now for the things that worked less well - I think that Mr. Martin's decision to split the story geographically rather than chronologically was misguided and A Dance with Dragons shows it since until the timeline catches with AFFC, nothing major we do not know about can happen and this - what I call the prequel's bane - makes those first 600 pages or so much slower than the rousing finale.The wrap up to most stories is another issue - here the culprit is the page count which basically forced the author to postpone lots of events to the next book - so there is a feel of incompleteness and while it bothers me less than others, I think that will be easily seen as the major shortcoming of the novel. The good news is that once The Winds of Winter will be out, this aspect will be forgotten, the bad news is that we have no idea when that book will be out...And here we come to the last thing of concern, namely that at the current pace, I have a hard time seeing it finished in two more volumes, even of 1000 pages like this one. Now that is not a bad thing since I am happy to read at length about the wonderful characters of GRRM and their world, but one thing I hope is that the author will not try again to be over ambitious and stick with a "I said seven, seven must be" plan and then realize he simply does not have the space to tell all the stories he wants, the way he wants. When in a fifth out presumably seventh book and in 1000 pages+, the story and characters expand, sometimes quite a lot, rather than starting to get together, this is something one has to mention.Overall I think that if you are an obsessive fan who discusses the finest points of the series in great detail in various forums, the book will be acceptable but not totally awesome for the reasons mentioned above, but if you love a grand scale epic series where the author keeps his "action have consequences and there is no get out the jail card" stance that so shocked people including myself in the earlier volumes, A Dance with Dragons (A++) will be the one novel you want to read this year indeed!Note; this review has been published first on Fantasy Book Critic and all links and references are to be found there
5 i want more val morghoris and history of the undead. i just can't wait for the sequel thank you for a great series grrm
2 I found the book to be drawn out.  Did not enjoy reading it as much as the first book.  The book looses its intrigue.  Will not be buying the other two books that follow on Dance of Dragons.  Will rather watch the TV series Game of Thrones.
5 Everything one would come to expect from this Gran Maester of Fantasy fiction. While we had to wait a torturous five years after &#34;A Fast for Crows' the wait for 'A Dance with Dragons was worth it. Martin picks up right where he left off. Dany and her nearly full grown dragons have survived an epic battle as she makes her way to Westeros across the Narrow Sea from Essos to claim the Iron Throne hat she states is rightfully hers as the Targaryens were proper rulers of Westeros and the five kingdoms. Double and triple crosses abound as people change their faiths to the different houses and of course some deaths though not a shocking as depicted in the Red Wedding back in 'A Storm of Swords'. And there is one character Reek some readers maybe familiar with Cersei has learned about the death of her father Lord Tywin and suspects her brother Tyrion the Imp though he's imprisoned and she'll do anything with her twin brother Jaime's help to crush anyone that gets in her way. The book ends with a taste of what is to come with the net installment 'The Winds of Winter' and, not even Georg's publishers know hen he will turn it in. Hopefully we wont' have to wait another five years hurry up George Winter is Coming and the TV series is catching up as we wait for the concluding volume 'A Dream of Spring'.
4 So I finally got through this book! I've been reading it forever! And by that I don't mean to say that I didn't like it or that it was hard to get through, because it wasn't. Or at least, not any harder than any other of Martin's books. It's just a situation where I wasn't in a hurry because this was book 5 and book 6 isn't expected out for a long time (2015 according to Goodreads.com). So I would read a few chapters, then not pick it up for a few weeks. I read several other books, finishing them first while ADWD was on the back burner. It came and went, but I decided that I finally needed to finish it.As for the book, I won't talk much about the plot because, as I said before, this is book 5 and I don't want to do too many spoilers for earlier books. If I do any I'll warn you first.I've said it before and I'll say it again: I LOVE this story! The characters and settings and conflicts are masterfully done and once you get into the story, you just can't put it down. That said, Martin's writing style can be a big difficult to get into. You have to get used to the way he writes. His style isn't bad or amateur. It's just kind of heavy.  Then again, if you make it all the way to book 5, I suppose you would've made your peace with the writing hundreds of pages ago.While book 4 focused a lot on the less mainstream story lines, Book 5 goes back to the more central conflicts and characters we've come to love. Many people have criticized this book for its meandering and...I can kind of see their point. I do wish Martin would move the story along a bit more quickly rather than going into detail about characters, cities, and cultures that have nothing to do with the main characters. Yet, being a writer, by the time I got to the end, I could see how he was shaping the story and where he was going all along. He just could have gotten there sooner.I've also heard criticism about the title because this sounds like it will feature a lot of dragon action, but, according to others, they barely spread their wings. I don't agree with this criticism. Though it's true that the dragons aren't the central element in the plot, I do think they were what this installment was always working up to. Near the end Barriston Selmy gives the title it's meaning. He says, Not all men are meant to dance with dragons.  Notice that the "dance" of the title is singular, not plural. *minor spoiler* The character that does the "dance" dies in the process. I promise this is not a major spoiler because it was not a major character, but still, when you think of it that way, the Dance with Dragons in this book ended in death. So the point of the title is that the story points toward the cliff hanger end, which is full of death and ruin.One could argue that there are other dragon dances of course, literal in the case of Daenarys and the death pits and figurative for Jon Snow. All threads end in disaster (fitting for a novel which isn't the final one) and while the novel stalled a bit in the middle, the end left me desperately wanting book 6.There was also a very touching chapter near the end with Daenarys looking back over her recent choices and conversing with an imagined someone that she regrets having sent away. I found it very touching as it strayed into literary fiction and had a sweet, melancholy feel. Possibly my favorite part of this book.Overall, if you're into Martin's series, this is simply a continuation of the story. It may not be the most exciting installment (nothing has equaled Book 3 yet) but it's important to read this to get to the next part. Martin has set up some exciting things for book 6 and--like all the other epic fantasy suckers--I will be pre-ordering it when it becomes available.
2 I loved the first three books.  I was hoping the 4th was a fluke, but after finally getting through a Dance with Dragons I am bored.  I actually couldn't read more than one chapter without falling asleep.  I feel like half of this book could have been cut out and still gotten to the same ending point.  I would love to know how the story ends, but I don't think I can get through another book like this without knowing when the end is.
5 Loved it! Waiting for the next book in this series! Come on Mr Martin! Get writing! Please! 5 Stars! Must Read Series!
3 First: I like long books with interesting themes.  I enjoyed getting to know the characters of the previous books (even though I had to refer to a cheat sheet at times to keep them all straight).  BUT:  This book was a nightmare of fog and misdirection.  The introduction of new characters scattered my focus on the plot...oh, that's right, the plot was somewhere in the fog.  I wanted to scream &#34;HODOR&#34; at times.  Will there be some sort of last book that will finally make sense of it all?  One can hope.
5 I had a hard time putting this last book down. When you get so far in this series you want some closure on story lines, but this one keeps you guessing and saying "No! They can't kill him!"I think Mr. Martin likes to keep his options open for more book to come. I know I'd like to read more!l
1 Honestly I feel fleeced, the story has gone sour, it has no motion to a conclusion, find another series of books, this is a rip off and waist of time.
4 I'm glad I was able to read book 4 & book 5 at the same time. Unfortunatly book 6 hasn't come out yet, so of course you are left hanging. I'm glad I had read the reviews first. I wasn't as disappointed because I knew what to expect.
4 After thinking a little I have to say that I liked ADWD. I liked AFFC too, but would have loved them to be only ONE book. That being said, I'm talking about ADWD now...Arya, Theon, Bran, Barristan, Aegon/Connington and Jon 's chapters were a treat... they're all very well written and deep, they added meaning to the tale and lived up each and every of my expectations. They actually are what I wanted. As many pointed out, "sadly" the storylines all end at a cliff-hanger, but that's only to be expected, since we know there are at least another 2 oboks coming before the end.But there are a couple of things I didn't like at all... the Tyrion and Dany chapters seem to be the biggest problem with this new instalment. It seems to me that both characters have "changed" in a way that is unsatisfying . Tyrion in this book seems to have lost all his cleverness and, above all, his wit: I think here he has never said or done one single thing worth of the Tyrion we've known so far, he seem to have become a real freak and he he doesn't care... all he's interested in is to find out where whores go. Ok, he did what he did to his father, but he seems to have done nothing out of it except becoming a very plain, dull and predictable character which is exactly the contrary of what he has always been to the bone (he never ever surprised me, he sometimes BORED me instead - and I say that even if I liked his voyage!). The same, I think, happens with Dany. She HAD ALREADY grown from a little scared girl into a dragon (or a dragonling if you prefer) but now she wastes herself in not making her mind up. Never. On anything! Ok, she's a teenager and I understand all she did with Daario (which is very "real" as teenagers are concerned) BUT... but all the stuff she went through in Mereen without doing ANYTHING about it is, imo, out of character. I remember Dany becoming confident, learning from whatever happened to her.... and learning to make the best out of even the worst situations. She had become, in a way, strong. But here she does NOTHING (except marrying a man... and to think that she married him to heave some weight off her shoulders is almost unbelievable for what she had grown to be!!!)These, I think, are the real problem with the book: two major characters who don't quite resemble whom they have been ALWAYS, regardless of any situations they were put in. You may say now that people change. My reply is: yes, they change, but their DNA stays the same! And this is what I felt, that Tyrion and Dany's DNA have been changed without any "strong-enough" reason.
4 I can't believe it's been 5 years since Feast For Crows. I do not want to be critical of GRRM because it does take time to write something as great as ASOIAF. In fact, I hope that there will be more books in addition to the ones that have already been planned... I will be sad when it all ends.The story moves forward a little in this book, although at least half the book is written in parallel time to Feast For Crows but with different characters.Once again GRRM has included story line clues (i.e. Melissandre's prediction that John will be stabbed in the dark) for us to identify. I know I've missed some clues so I'll be re-reading Dance With Dragons again. I just hope that we won't have to wait another 5 years for the next book even though I know that it too will be worth the wait.
5 My grandson is reading this series. So, had this book on his Christmas wish list. He has been trying to talk me into giving it to him early since the day it came in.
1 I thought Martin had hit rock bottom in the last book, so I thought 'no where to go but up', right?  WRONG!  Sideways is evidently a new direction for authors, who have obviously never taken 10th grade English and do not know what plot sequence means.I do not know who the other 3000 or so people are who gave this book 3,4,or 5 stars, but they must be on someone's payroll, (wink wink), because this series is just getting worse and worse. Do not waste your money. I used an Amazon credit, so thankfully, I am not feeling too swindled. If you feel you must read this, get it from the Library.
5 After reading the first four books I could not wait for this book in paperback.  Hope book 6 arrives soon
5 Great book except that it's another cliffhanger. - Wish GRRM would pop them out a bit quicker.  Maybe it will come out when I retire.
5 What can I say; great series but I have to say thier may of been a little to much of detail.  Other than that I read all the book and watched all the series on HBO, that really needed more episodes to justify the books.  Can't wait for the next book.  Please be a bit kinder to the South Mr. Martin my best regards Lori
2 There are already a legion of critical reviews of this book out there, but I'll add one more since there seem to be quite a few obviously bogus 5-star "reviews" on this site for the purposes of buffing the overall rating.Like many others, I have been a fan of this series for more than ten years, and have been anxiously awaiting "A Dance With Dragons", even though "A Feast For Crows" was a huge disappointment after the three fantasy masterpieces that opened this series. I told myself that perhaps AFFC was a misstep, and that once ADWD came out all anxieties would be laid to rest because it would be another masterpiece. Wrong. This novel is tedious, meandering, needlessly vulgar, and does not advance the story in any significant way at all. Keep in mind that I have read the first three books three times each, so when I say that this book is a soporific, it is coming from a former admirer of Mr. Martin. Several of the characters that we care about are not in this book at all, but numerous characters and story-lines that seem pointless and distracting are introduced. I find the land of Westeros fascinating, but I don't care enough to follow the life story of every minor noble and haberdasher in it, which the author seems intent upon doing. Even worse, the cruelty described in this book borders on grotesque. It's as though Martin felt the need to "spice" up the already brutal, violent, borderline misogynistic legacy of this series in an effort to compensate for the feeble storytelling.I'll stop here. Many others have gone into much more detail as to exactly what went wrong with this book (and the previous one). Personally, I can come up with only one conclusion: George RR Martin doesn't care about this series anymore, or has completely lost control of it. Either way, I'm done with both this series and this author.If this thing wins the Hugo Award, it will be a travesty. I wish it had ended as a trilogy with "A Storm of Swords".
5 a page turner in the classic fashion GRR Martin has created an entire world for your pleasure. I was taken by surprise to find that this wasn't the end.  Waiting impatiently for the next installment. Awesome!
5 Hurry up with the next books George... I need to know what happens next! Also love the TV series... even though the Books are so much better!
3 You would think that this book would be great considering how long it took Martin to write this sequel.  I especially dislike the way it is repeating parts of stories that have already been told in A Feast for Crows.  The first three books were much better.
5 Loved this book. I've especially enjoyed chapters about (1) Jon (Night Watch), (2) Theon/Ramsay Bolton and even (3) Bran's travel beyond the Wall.Tyrion and Daenarys didn't hold my interest as much as in the previous books. Cercei and Jamie are hardly present in this book.Hope that Jon Snow is still alive in the next book, and Mr. Martin explores into his developing his skinchanger abilities and becoming a better leader of his people. He is an example of a good leader and a decent human being, using his new found authority as a Lord Commander for benefit of the people. He is one of the most promising and fastest growing characters in the series.Story line about Bran's travel North seeking a greenseer, and eventually becoming one, and merging into a tree (and through one tree gaining an access to the network connecting all the wierwood trees in the North) is very creative and raises interesting questions.This 5th book in the series is very long but absolutely worse reading it. Can't wait for the next book!
4 A Dance with Dragons is a far more satisfying read than the previous novel, A feast of Crows. It ties up a lot of the loose ends left in Feast and leaves the story in a very exciting place at the end.The focus shifts to Daenaries in the west and to Jon Snow on the wall(two of my favourite characters).It also revisits Arya (I thought the end of Feast of Crows was particularly cruel to her). Strongly recommend.
5 George RR Martin's epic, ambitious series `A Song of Ice and Fire' has to be the closest creation to JRR Tolkien's work; for he has shown us such a creation that one could only dream of producing. This mammoth tale concludes with the largest book I have ever held within my hands (being 1,016 pages long), that took me quite a few months to read. This grand epic saga has literally raised the bar high within its genre, for many authors to aim to aspire to and which many are overwhelmed as it was not thought possible. Full of intensity, electric tension and nail-biting suspense this book is one to completely and utterly loose yourself within and which pulls you in; reminiscent of bait being lured into a tantalizing trap. Caught in a tangled web of interconnecting threads, your mind will still be lost within the pages long after finishing reading this book. The sheer scale on which George RR Martin has achieved this assumed to be impossible feat, Is just mind-boggling and which really does blow you away instantly. Many other fantasy writers have taken one look at `A song of ice and fire' and have turned away shaking their heads in disbelief, as they never thought it possible to have accomplished so much.To construct the twelve Caesars of fantasy fiction is astonishing, and his well-crafted characters and world-building on such a scale is astounding. This colossal, epic, staggering series and concluding novel is just temptation itself and a delight for all fans of the fantasy genre who really want to `stick their teeth' into something complex and compelling. Capturing the intricacy of Middle-Earth with such vivid detail and history, with character-driven narrative that is as brutal and bloodthirsty as Conn Iggulden's series about Caesar; this is a masterful tale. Etched within your memory for all-time this imaginary world will become part of your own world, as you re-visit it time & time again.The future of the seven kingdoms hangs in the balance, as on all sides bitter conflicts are reigniting which are played out by a band of outlaws and priests, soldiers, nobles and slaves. In the East fearsome Dragons rule the skies with the kingdom below built upon dust and death is plagued by deadly enemies...The Dwarf Tyrion Lannister seeks out the Dragons as you travel to the North and the great wall of ice & stone, where the wildling armies wait for an assault....The tides of destiny are slowly but surely washing in and coming closer...closer to the end of all things.
5 My husband and I enjoyed watching this series on HBO. He wanted to know more about what happens so for Father's Day he received the whole set of books.
3 Mr. Martin seems to be diverting too much in endless plot twists and new characters storylines. I almost feel that he is getting tired of writing about Westeros and is losing his focus as a result.
4 The Good, the Bad and the....The Good:GRRM seems to have recovered from whatever ailed his efforts during A Feast for Crows.  There's far more action here and more exciting developments in this installment.  And, at long last, we hear from the fan-favorites--Tyrion, Danaerys, Arya, Jon, etc...  We also get to hear from several other interesting characters which are coming out of the background for the first time.Overall, the development is satisfying but not savory.  Almost like a gluten-free cookie....  We get a taste of the world we love, but there's something subduing the flavor.  It feels like the "best bits" have been withheld. Is this the reality of it? I have no idea! Just my impression...The Bad:Some of my favorite characters got a really poor showing.  Arya, Jon and Bran were dealt some of the the most boring narratives despite their plots being among of the most exciting in the story.There were also a few plot turns that were a bit disappointing.  Not anything particularly shocking... just disappointing.The Other:While the title may tantalize you into thinking we may actually dance with dragons, be at ease. The Feast for Crows continues albeit with a different cast of characters. There's a lot of bookkeeping here, background story telling and reminiscing of times past and relatively little of the "here and now" in Westeros.I sincerely hope the future novels will be edited with a forward-marching purpose. While, yes, I will continue to read future installments, I am beginning to doubt any true "conclusion" will be reached. It's the song that never ends....
4 After readin the previous books, I finally recognize the caracters with out hesitation, and that makes the reading more easy
5 EpicThis book is as complete and well writen as any other book could hope to read, the plots and the povs are increibly well delivered and is simply a master piece.
4 I didn't want to read it and just wait for GRRM to write his next book before I read this one but I couldn't wait any longer. I read it pretty quick and was pretty happy with it. I am excited for the end and am glad I picked up the book series instead of just being a fan of the tv series. The books are better than the show, as always.
1 I'd read the rest of the series and wanted to find out what happens next and anyone contemplating this book is likely in the same situation and willing to buy the book regardless of my review, especially now that it is being discounted heavily. But man does this book DRAG. It has been a 2-year gap since I read the book that comes before this one (remember that the last book parallels this book so we are going two books back to the prequel). The book dances between multiple character threads and locations, referencing plot developments that have faded in my memory. And it just goes on and on and on with angst-ridden wanderings and plots with little in the way of action. I'm writing this at about the 1/3 point in the book so maybe things will pick up. If you've read the rest of the series you're going to have to read this one but it isn't literature.[Edit] I am editing this review after having just finished the book. The edit includes a downgrade from two stars to one and this additional material. This book is just horrible and I feel like I am being held hostage to whatever Martin wants to do because I'd invested my time in the previous volumes and the story lines. I wanted to find out what happens to characters with whom I've built relationships but still no joy and no resolutions. This book has no fewer than eight different plot lines going and each chapter jumps from one to another meaning that continuity within the book suffers. Further, many of the plot lines are left over from previous volumes and given the time gap between this one and the latest it was difficult for me to remember what was going on the last time we visited some of the characters. Further, the plot is dispersed so widely in both geography and characters that I am frankly having trouble keeping many of the minor players straight.Martin has woven a world that I am sure he understands but if you are looking for something to read with an ending don't look to this series. Instead, this is more like a multi-year TV show where you have to just tune in week after week to see what happens. But instead of following a close cast of characters through ongoing adventures Martin has created his full employment program by just broadening his world. I'd have much rather he had created spin offs so I could at least have some resolution on part of the story.I'll probably buy the next one, if it ever comes out. But I certainly won't pay full price for it. I'll wait again until it is deeply discounted for Kindle.For what it is worth, this is the worst review I've ever left and am not someone who goes around looking for problems or complaining just to complain. But I resent having my investment in this story and characters hijacked into a vehicle to sell me this unsatisfying content.
4 Perhaps Mr.Martin should have stopped at four.This book is not as interesting nor entertaining as the other four.I do not plan do buy a sixth book.
5 Once again, George RR Martin does a great job of keeping me on the edge of my seat while reading, and trying not to put the book down because I want to see what happens next.  I'm not going to ruin it for you all, but I was disappointed with Mr. Martin's choice of characters to kill off.  You'll have to read it to find out, and I can't wait for the next book.
5 Unlike many readers, I found A Feast for Crows and A Dance With Dragons great fun and great reading.  It made me admire the writing of George R.R. Martin and I didn't worry about the lack of action.  Martin said that the two books were background story that came before the ending he was planning.  The books are essentially character development and I accept it as such.  In this book, two of my favorites are back, Daenerys and Tyrion.  Daenerys' story isn't as compelling this time.  She is ruling a free city name Mareen and has freed the slaves in the city.  To prevent the other free cities from invading and retaking the people as slaves when she leaves, she stays and plans to marry a wealthy man whose alliance would keep the city safe.  We have already seen what marrying for love has done to Rob, but what are the consequences and benefits to an arranged marriage without love or affection?  Tyrion has escaped King's Landing and has been sent by Varys to join with Daenerys in the free cities.  He runs into Jorah Mormont who captures him to give him as a hostage to Daenerys in order to please her.  They meet up with a dwarf woman named Penny whose brother was murdered in the search for Tyrion.  All three become slaves and perform as a sideshow for entertainment.  Queen Cersei is having her own problems when she plans for Queen Margery to be accused of adultery and treason and finds herself in the same spot.  Jamie, now a nicer guy is riding up North and chooses to go off with Brienne in search of the Stark girls instead of intervening in Cersei's behalf.  Jon Snow is fighting off more wildlings and trying hard to not become embroiled in the War of the Five Kings.  Stannis has taken over the Wall and is planning an attack on the South.  Of course his unlikable personality is a huge problem.  Meanwhile, Tywin's brother, Kevan seems capable of solidifying Tommen's reign into a kingdom people would actually want to live in.  Strange as it may be,  I liked A Feast for Crows a bit better because I really grew to like the Stark girls and found their stories to be very moving and compassionate.  Arya's story does continue in this book but Sansa's story was complete in the 4th book.  The most compelling stories for me in this book were Tyrion and Cersei.  Tyrion has had so much thrown at him all his life that life as a slave is tolerated with ease by him.  He is always secure in his own right and very kind to both Penny and Mormont, a sullen sad man, who is his worst enemy.  Cersei can also stand almost anything but seems to believe nothing will keep her down even when it appears evident that she is lost.  I really look forward to the next installment and will have to wait years like many other fans.  I enjoy the HBO series in the meantime.  Love the series.
5 It is a good book. I like how it went back and explained some of the things that didn't make since or was left out in book four. I would recommend this book to anybody.
5 Why is there so little love for this release? I found it all fantastic, in fact better then the previous book (book 4, A Feast for Crows).In any book, there will some characters that are not as loved as others or get killed off and chapters that perhaps drag a bit but this series is a master work, every bit is a bit more background for the entire story. Yes, there were some "cliff" hangers from the previous book (as in a 1950's serial) but all in all it is keeping me on the edge of my couch reading and wanting to "know" what/why/when/how. As long as the next two books (or more) rap things up with no glaring loose ends, I will be happy and grateful to have the series to read.
1 This series DOES NOT qualify George Martin as "the American Tolkien" - a quick review might more accurately say "a book of bad menus, weak plots, plenty of fill to disturb the flow of what little story there is, and overweening characters that are impossible to identify with unless you live your life on a teenage page of Facebook". If you're a reader who thinks Robert Jordan lost his way with the Wheel of Time series, (or may be his editors were milking the money) don't read this book.
4 Finally!  Though the first few chapters were a bit slow, this book once again showed the storytelling style I fell in love with in the first few books but seemed to have lost in the previous one. Can't wait for the next!
5 In my opinion this is the second best book in the series (the first one being my favorite). While some of my favorite characters didn't make it to book five there are still plenty of original characters still around. I don't want to give any of the story away but I promise it is a good one.The story is more in depth as well as character involvement. There is never a dull moment in this book and it was very difficult to put down. Which is why I am surprised about the bad reviews. I loved this book and the cliff hanger in the end made me excited for book #6. Please give this one a try, Im certain you will like it.
1 Wow!  This was painful to listen to.  Roy Dotrice may have a wonderful speaking voice but his reading of Martin's work was excruciating to endure.I've no idea where or why he got the idea that all of Martin's characters were either Scotish Highlanders or Cockney Louts - with the occasional poorly done Sydney Greenstreet imitation thrown in for good measure - but that's about all that populate his rendering.  As if that didn't rankle enough, the man vocalized _all_ the women - and I do mean _all_ the women - as 14th century Irish tavern wenches.  Even if they weren't smallfolk in the tale.Had this been my first exposure to what Martin created then I'd have gone no further with it and stayed away from the rest in disgust.You would think that as successful as Martin has been with this series that they would've gotten a more capable and fitting reader for his works.I hope they do so in the future as Dotrice is really an awful choice here.
5 After a long wait of nearly six years since the publication of A Feast for Crows, the fifth book in George R.R. Martin's award-winning, best-selling A Song of Ice and Fire series, A Dance with Dragons was released in July 2011.The entire A Song of Ice and Fire series has had a higher profile lately, especially since HBO started airing a mini-series called Game of Thrones based on the first book, A Game of Thrones. Their intention is to shoot each season of the series roughly based on each book in the series. Peter Dinklage won a very important Emmy award (Best Supporting Actor in a Drama Series) for his portrayal of Tyrion Lannister, one of the fan's favorite characters.A Dance with Dragons was reviewed by all the major papers of record (Los Angeles Times, New York Times, Time) as well as the usual suspects of media outlets online, generally positively. Among fans, however, the reviews are somewhat mixed, with the feeling that the latest book is closer to A Feast for Crows than  A Storm of Swords. To me, that's to be expected because the timeline of events that occurred in A Feast for Crows occupy about half of the book in A Dance with Dragons, happily told from the perspective of the fan's favorite characters. The problem with this is that not much progress was made on the huge, series-spanning plots like: Daenerys' march to Westeros from Essos, John Snow's attempts to maintain the Wall against the invasion of Creatures of the Frozen North, Bran Stark's destiny to actualize his magical talents and whether the Iron Throne will be controlled by someone who actually deserves the power and cherishes the people they rule, just to name a few. (By some counts, there were around  11 central plots covered in just this book).On extended reflection, I think my overall evaluation of the book is closer to the official reviewer' than the fans'. I've only read A Dance with Dragons once, but I would still rank it as the second best book of the series, behind the impressive A Storm of Swords which is still the best of the bunch with A Dance with Dragons close behind, followed by A Clash of Kings and A Game of Thrones (the less said about A Feast for Crows, the better).I had the good fortune of only starting to read the series in 2011, so I have not had to experience the half-decade long wait for the next installment in the series. Sadly, now that I have caught up with Martin's production schedule, I will have to comfort myself during the long wait for Book 6 (widely reported to be titled The Winds of Winter) by re-reading the first five books and watching the excellent HBO television adaptations of the earlier books (apparently each season of the series will be an adaptation of the corresponding book). Hopefully the next book will be out before the television series catches up with Martin!Title: A Dance with Dragons.Author: George R.R. Martin.Paperback: 1040 pages.Publisher: Bantam.Published: July 12, 2011.OVERALL GRADE: A- (3.917/4.0).PLOT: A-.IMAGERY: A-.IMPACT: A+.WRITING: A.
5 One of my favorite books of all times. What a great author, and I don't take my books lightly. LOVE it and recomend everyone to read the whole series
2 Book 4 and 5 are boring...my thought..read Kate Morris's review.  It is an excellent review. The author seems to let his imagination run wild as the story goes..all the characters are jokes now
2 This was the most disappointing instalment yet. I have this fear that Mr Martin is running out of steam on this series and that the TV series is becoming far larger than it should to add pressure.
5 I am hooked on this series of books and I like each one that I have read.  I can hardly wait until the next installment is published.  I don't watch the TV series as I believe books are always better than the shows or movies.
5 More!  Can't put these down- need to know endings.  Love 'em.  Awful to spend every waking moment reading - love it!!
4 I have enjoyed all the previous volumes, but the author has set himself a tough task and in volume five you can see what he's up against: he has to pull so many threads together--and he can't help adding still more stories and characters--that just writing a book is too much. So what we have in volume five is a set of structural necessities, leavened with some of Martin's irrepressible creativity, which may be ill-advised here.In sum, if you are following the series, you need to read this book. It is clearly the site of his gathering himself for the final push. It is interesting but not fascinating and compelling in the way that the first three and part of the fourth books were. But ok. It's a heroic task he's set himself and I'm willing to recognize that sometimes you have to be workmanlike rather than brilliant. Volume 6 of the series will tell whether he's just hitting his marks, or is now on the race back to the barn.
5 I love the complex development of characters. This book could go on forever. I would never get tired of reading about it the lives of the characters. I would like to see some more development of the special powers some of the characters.
3 As I cracked open this book, it occurred to me that I had not read a new Tyrion chapter in over TEN YEARS. That's part of the problem.The first three books of this series were awesome. Martin set the bar very high.Book four was a disappointment, but only relative to the first three. In preparations for this fifth volume, I reread the first four. I was surprised by how much I liked the widely-panned book four. It's still Martin. It's still excellent. But the pace and story progress is much slower.Book five is a similar experience. There's good stuff here, but it's slow in coming. With upward of a dozen point-of-view characters, nobody's story moves particularly quickly.A lot of the criticism of this book is based upon expectations and frequency. If Martin released a book like this one every 12-18 months, most of his readers would be thrilled. It would be like a slow but steady march towards a conclusion. With a five year wait for book four and a six year wait for book five, the lack of progress is excruciating. It's like Stannis marching on Winterfell.There's not much of a solution to this problem, short of Martin putting more of his time into this series. The man is 62 years old, and I, for one, do not want to read Brandon Sanderson's ending to A Song of Ice and Fire.
3 It became dragging towards the end and lots of unfinished business Seems like GR Martin would still like to write a continuation, otherwise he keeps us all hanging..
2 I went from checking the book shops and sites for years to get the next installment. I waited so long that I had to be refreshed as to the characters.Finally this book came along and it was such a disappointment that if it takes him 20 years to produce another it won't bother me. What a drag this volume was. A struggle to read.  I am not sure I even recognized some of the characters. A self absorbed effort from an author who appears to be dragging this out interminably.
5 One of the best pieces of writing I have ever read. I have read all the books in the series thus far and can't wait for winds of winter
4 This was good but it has a tendency to ramble in spots. I do look forward to the next installment.
2 ....save your money and borrow from the library or a friend.  You will need to renew...and renew...and renew.  It moves THAT slowly.  It's not terrible, just not good.  It is a disappointing step in the series.  I have it on my Nook so if I'm completely bonkers bored or stuck on the subway I may pick it up and plod on.  Or I may do something more interesting like contemplate my shoelaces.
5 have not read all of it but where can you go wrong with dragons? you cannot not to me. wish I lived in those days but as a dragon. lol
3 I hate buying a series that takes years to complete. This may or may not be the last book, as in reading the intro by the author he was alluding to another book to come.So far, it is a little confusing since the last book I reread was number 4, this is number 5, and I do ot remember all the characters and 5 is supposed to be going on at the same time number 4 was.I want to know how it ends so I will continue to read it but if you have not started yet, wait till HBO finishes the mini-series then you can buy the books.
5 The writers leaves you wanting more wondering who are the real players in the game of thrones and who are moving all the pieces I can't wait for the final two books
3 i loved the first three books in the series...couldn't put them down and looked forward to books four and five...four left the storyline and bactracked and five wasn't much better as it didn't end the series nor tie up enough ends so that this reader felt satisfied...that said i will probably buy the next book if and when there is one to see what happens
4 I fear I'll be too old to read the next installment as long as it takes him to write each one and he's no spring chicken. I enjoy his epic fantasy series except I've grown tired of the tedium of reading/learning names that will end up meaning nothing as the character will get killed off. Anyone you care about in the series is bound to die or wander off into a storyline with it's epic creation of weird names. I just wish Martin would focus and move the storyline forward a little quicker, the way it's written HBO will need to modify various storylines to maintain interest. Good book, but ultimately annoying in that nothing is really resolved and more people you care for are killed.
5 A Dance With Dragons is wonderful and a worthy link in the Ice and Fire chain.  It is exciting and paints several unforgettable and vivid scenes , which is more than most books are able to do.  Mr Martin has created a fully imagined world and I cannot believe that it has not been enjoyed by all who have read it ... maybe those who did not like it could not finish for one iterate reason or another - I found it to be a wonderful part of a modern masterpiece -----
5 No. 5 in the series is a real step-up and Martin displays his very best.However just as so many characters were missed in number 4, those in the preceding novel were missed here.  Not a great choice to split as he chose to so I hope Martin does not do so again.Unlike many 'series' novels, this one absolutely only works in the greater picture,Still, GAME fans will love it.  Looking forward to number 6 and picking up where this (and no. 4) left off.
3 With already thousands of comments about the book what more is there to say?While reading the book I am totally engrossed.  Each chapter is well written with lots of details and interesting.The problems are: Characters continue to be added to the point that it is hard to remember who is who. there are multipe kings, queens and princes, and more knights than one can imagine.  There are multiple companies of sellswords.  The are multiple free cities each with their retinue of stange sounding advisors and leaders.  There are at least 4 major religions, and an uncountable number of gods. There are as many plots & schemes as their are charcters.  It is not uncommon for a character be drowned, stabbed or knocked out at the end of a chapter, only to be found alive several chapters later.Two characters who have not seen since the end of book 3 show up at the end of book 5.  Game of Thrones has become like a lot of TV shows that start off amazing but in their suprise popularity jump off the tracks in trying to keep fans interested (e.g. "Lost").I am not sure if George Martin has it all planned out or is just winging it at this point, but it would seem the vast majority of fans, myself included, would like to see the focus narrow, not broaden. He has built a truly amazing universe. If he could just use the next book or 2 to allow some closure to many of the stories and stabilization to the rule of Westeros, he can then he keep writing books of new adventures, uprisings and stories of different characters and regions.  Let's hope this happens.
5 Really enjoyed reading this.  Loved having it on the Kindle, all my previous reads were paperbound versions.  On Kindle, was able to read it anywhere, including while at work walking down the hall between meetings.
5 George Martin delivers books with rich characters and labyrinthine story telling. This is not a formula for everyone, but for those who enjoy it there is no one who does it better. Book five is a better than average example of his storytelling prowess. Lets face it a story with something like 1500 named characters takes an investment from the reader, but those who make the investment will find themselves making an hour or two every day to read the next chapter or two, and all the days together add up to more pleasure per hour than anything else you can do with your time. Don't for heavens sake begin the journey with this book...start with book one...winter is coming!
1 I am so over these books.  I am almost positive that he wrote this without an outline, it wanders.  Martin is at best a mediocre talent and this book will completely cure your insomnia.
5 Like the preceding books in this amazing series, "A Dance with Dragons" is rich, twisty, gritty, and totally engrossing. It comes through on Martin's promise to return the reader to the lifelines of major characters that were largely missing from "Feast of Crows". Unfortunately, many of the major characters that are most appealing (at least to me) remain at points in their lives where they are not involved in the central picture in any discernable way. In other words, although things continue to happen in their lives, they are not moving the overall picture forward. (I cannot get specific here, without spoiling the story for someone...)I am also unhappy to say that this book, like the others in this series, ends without an ending. In some great series, the author manages not only to write an overall story arc that ends satisfyingly, but also manages to make each book independent, and satisfyingly ended unto themselves. (Barbara Hambly's series that begins with "Dragonsbane" comes to mind as a magnificent example. Sharon Shinn's Archangel series is another example, though Hambly, I have to say, is the writer with far greater "range".) When a reader already knows that it may be multiple years before the next book, that's downright cruel!But this is a story well worth a bit of suffering! I will definitely be in line at the end of the 5 years or whatever it takes to get to the next book.
3 This story runs concurrently with the previous book.  I especially like Jon, who was stabbed by five or seven men in the previous book.  Near the end 0f A Dance with Dragons he is stabbed by several people.  That was very discouraging to me.  Did he die and go on to be one of the undead?  Was he miraculously saved as his treacherous step mother was?
2 Neil Gaiman, responding to readers complaining about the Martin situation back in 2009, stated that Martin "is not working" for his readers. Let the little people keep buying and suffer in silence.Gaiman is an idiot.I am lucky in that I started reading the series just eight weeks ago, which is how long it took me to finish book five. If I had started reading back in 1996, and had to wait the seven years between the superb book 3 and the lackluster books 4-5, I would be livid beyond words. No spoilers here, only the sad fact that, as too many have noted, Martin takes 2000 pages to get little done. Yes, the competent prose is still there, but prose was never Martin's strong point. His strong point was character, plot, drive. There is some minor development in books 4 and 5, but that's about it. To take seven years and 2000 pages to accomplish just that is unforgivable for an author. Forget the readers; the characters deserve better. The series deserves better.Even a mildly competent editor could have pared these two books down to a single volume. Doing so could have saved the series. Sadly, this did not happen. If it did not happen for books 4 and 5, it probably will not happen for books 6 and 7. That means we are looking at a wrecked series. I don't know if Martin is capable of bringing what is now a mess back on track; I'll wait to hear some reader responses before buying the next book.
4 Today, just to prove a point, I read the opening of Game of Thrones. There is no denying - through the series, GRRM's writing has become careless and unwieldy. Hi  He resorts to having characters repeat the same stale catch phrase again and again and again.Dany: "I am only a young girl who knows little in the ways of war"Tyrion: "Where do whores go"Barristan Selmy: "I am too old for this"Theon: "Reek Reek rhymes with leek/meek/weak....."And so on..Like the storyline, the prose stalled and lumbered. Yet, that wasn't the biggest sin. What of our favourite characters? (SPOILERS).Tyrion - the cunning influencer, the unsung hero of Blackwater, has just a couple of talents remaining - making "big people" laugh and being an obedient good little dwarf. He takes to the role of the slave as if he's prepared all his life for it. Serving at feasts, riding a pig, wiping his big master's bottom -  wouldn't any regular lordling learn all that growing up a possible heir to the richest family in Westeros?Dany - OK, she wanted to rule. But she doesn't. Some days she can't be bothered to hold court. She wants to float in her tub under the persimmon tree, and lounge around her terrace watching the "pyramids of Meereen". And choose outfits to greet Daario in - she's only a young girl who knows nothing in the way of war! She doesn't execute a single person, despite her own people falling like flies, and that's the same girl who nailed a hundred slave masters to crosses as a payback for slave children murdered in the same way, who sacked Astapor after cheating its masters out of the Unsullied, the girl had crossed deserts and conquered cities on her way to win back the Westeros throne. About that...It's all about peace now, man.Bran - becoming a tree? Really? The boy has crossed into the North Lands to get his legs back, and the best he can get is the offer of even less mobility.Arya - morphing into a chick from Kill Bill. Not that it is a bad storyline on its own, but having spent two books trying to find her family - anyone - this leaves me a bit bewildered that she makes no attempt to get news about any of them. She knows that Jon and Sansa are alive, and seems to have made a choice to forget about them. She enters this book as the Faceless Men wanna be, and exits as the Faceless Men wanna-be. How far she's come!Jon - knifed. OK, most theories seem to agree that he won't die, but you have to wonder why GRRM created such a noble, proud house populated by people you want to know more and more about, only to wipe out most of them so early in the series, maim and rain misery on the rest for the remainder of it.Jamie - appears only to tell us he is galloping off to join Brienne...not without telling us - again - that Cersei has done Lancel and Osney and possibly Moonboy..As a tradeoff, GRRM unleashes a plethora of inconsequential, background characters, some of whom are quite disgusting, to make matters worse. Victarion comes to mind, brutish, cruel, stupid man. His casual cruelty and abuse towards his "dusky woman" was quite painful to read about. Why oh why do we need to know about him?Look, it is still a good read. It is still an amazing universe of characters, cities and events, still epic in its depth. I will still be buying the next book, if it ever comes out. But GRRM needs to cull and spare us the scum of Westeros. I've come too far now to stop reading - if I look back, I am lost!
2 My expectations remained just that, expectations. Did not enjoy the book. I would have prefered to see the book continue in the same way as the rest of the books.
5 Incredible, look forward to the next one. Kept me up nights wondering what was coming next.  Have read all five books in the series and ready for book number five.
5 Nuff said. George R. R. Martin is awesome. I am just writing these words to fill the minimum requirements. Done.
3 I won't rehash the plot, and I agree with many of the reviewers: book five simply does not live up the excitement, grandeur or promise of the first three books. Honestly, I just plodded along till the end because I'd spent good money on this book. GRRM will have to really "breathe fire" into the promised two books in the series; I expect that most of his die hard fans will await and then read them, but I'm no longer excited.
4 I just started reading this book. It is great so far, I don't want to put it down.I would recommend this book and the other four to anyone who likes swords, knights, kings and dragons.
5 These low ratings are ridiculous.  The book is a little slow in the beginning, but it picks up before half way and is just as good as the other books after that.  Book 1 was the same way, slow at first, then picking up.  People are just mad because the stories aren't resolved and the book took too long to come out.  But it is NOT a bad book.  I really enjoyed it and wasn't disappointed at all.  It may not be my favorite of the series, but it does belong in the series.  This is not like what happened with Robert Jordan's books, which became unreadable after a while.  Don't be afraid to buy this book - if you love this series, then you will enjoy it.
4 The first and second books I gave them a 5 star, while book three a 4 and the fourth book 3,5. The firts two books I enjoyed the most because are well written, have interesting plot twists and genius creativity with dialogues, while the third and forth have problems regarding the plot not advancing so much, although the third book have two of the best moments of the entire series.The fifth book is a problematic one, because while you will find the good elements, well written, very good dialogues, a few plot twists, the number of cliffhangers is just too annoying and there are no impactful scenes like the first three books.On the other hand, you could see a more well rounded product as the only truly boring parts were the endless descriptions of food.It's a four star book even though this one is probably the book with less impactful scenes.
5 Still reading and loving every page and every word. Its the first book in a long time that I couldn't predict how it will end.
2 I perhaps shouldn't rate this book, since I stopped reading about 100 pages in.  I was bored!  I may revisit it sometime, but I think the core four books were far superior.
4 It's hard to overstate just how much I have been anticipating this book.  Certainly since Martin's A Storm of Swords, I have been eagerly awaiting the continuation and perhaps resolution of plots set in motion by the Red Wedding, Jon Snow's ascension to lead the Night's Watch and Daenerys' capture of Meereen.  Well, after finishing the book yesterday and a literally sleepless night over how upset I was by certain deaths, I almost wish I hadn't read it.Let's start at the beginning. I'll try to keep this review spoiler-free.  First the good stuff.George R. R. Martin excels at making you care about these characters.  All of people, major and minor, have the ring of truth about them.  They feel real, you care about them or hate them but you understand them.  I don't think anyone does this better than GRRM.  The dragons are growing up and when they appear on the page, they are vivid, fascinating monsters a world away from the empathetic beasts of McCaffrey or Novik.  GRRM also delights in playing with reader expectations.  No one is safe, in this, A Song of Ice and Fire feels more like a horror story than traditional fantasy.  Finally, the world is gritty and real in a way fantasy simply wasn't before, outside of a few Sword and Sorcery tales from Leiber or Howard.  Martin is telling a huge tale and I can't think of anyone else telling a story this big, this successfully.  That said, Martin's reach exceeds his grasp, or so it seems at this point.The book follows three main plot threads with a spattering of scenes that advance the story a tick from A Feast for Crows.  The first is Tyrion's trajectory from Westeros to Daenerys. The second is Jon Snow's struggles leading the Night's Watch and preparing for the coming of Winter and the White Walkers.  The third is Daenerys' attempts to rule Meereen.  An honorable mention should be made for Quentyn Martell's attempt to reach and woo Daenerys but this plot line is buried in the latter half of the book.  Additionally we have: Stannis Baratheon's struggle in the North, the fate of the Iron Born in the north, the ascendancy of House Ramsay and Frey, the fallout from Queen Cerci's stupidity, Davos Seaworth's attempt to woo House Manderley, the fate of Bran and Rickon Stark, and last but not least, a new appearance of a Targaryen quite literally out of nowhere.  This doesn't include additional plot threads that also poke their heads up from A Feast for Crows.  As you can see, there's a lot going on here.One of the things that makes this book so frustrating is how few plots are resolved or even moved along significantly. A Dance with Dragons feels like half a book, despite its heroic size.  There is so much going on that there simply isn't enough progress accomplished.  I have to question some of the plot lines Martin chose to write.  Sorry but there it is.  Readers hoping that there would be a resolution of the legendary "Meereenese knot" that tied GRRM up and stranded Daenerys a world away from the main action in Westeros will be disappointed. Not only by the fact the Daenerys show no sign of going to Westeros but by the fact she's not even in the third act of the book.  Battles between the Boltons and Stannis are literally bogged down and left unresolved on the page, making a mysterious note from Ramsay Bolton (nee Snow) at the end of Jon's chapter ambiguous to say the least.  Tyrion never even meets Daenerys, let alone advises her.  The Martel plot is so futile and unreceived that I wonder why Martin bothered to write it.  Almost NOTHING is settled in this book.  We are given cliffhangers and `downer endings' but few resolutions.  We aren't even moving towards resolution and with only two books left (supposedly) that is worrying.  Two plot threads appear to be resolved in the most final way possible, which leads me to my second problem with the book.There has been a recurring theme that those who try to do good, who try to act honorably will be killed, mutilated and disgraced.  Time and again, characters you know and love and sympathize with are cut down, corrupted, maimed and murdered.  A Dance with Dragons continues this fine tradition.  Martin is nothing if not consistent.  Again and again in this series, characters are warned but ignore these warnings, to their doom.  In a way, this is a classical tragedy where a character's flaw or virtues even, bring about their destruction.  Or virtues...that's not the way it's supposed to work.  Flaw, yes. In classical tragedy, a character is supposed to fail due to their tragic flaw.  In Martin's world, there are tragic virtues.  Like Honor. Honesty.  Compassion.  Decency.  Humanity. Loyalty.  Any of these qualities will get you killed in these books. The characters that thrive are the most devious, the most ruthless, the liars, the torturers and the corrupt.  I am weary from watching good men die and watching good women suffer.  At this point, I'm not sure who I should be rooting for or if I should even keep reading.I will, of course.  Martin is writing the epic fantasy of the past fifty years.  Even if it fails, it will be an epic failure and be worth watching in the same way that watching Rome burn must have been worth seeing.In addition to the betrayal, murder and torture, there's the sex.  Now, I'm no prude, I write about sex and violence in no small amount myself.  However, this book is particularly drenched in sex and for gratuitous reasons, it seems.  There are long, loving descriptions of random naked women we never see again.  Rape and near rape, both on the page and `off stage'.  Sodomy is mentioned frequently among Eastern kingdoms and sell sword companies.  There's always been a lot of sex and deviant sex at that in this series. So I'm sure most readers won't be put off at this point, but brace yourself. There's a lot of sex in this book.Do I recommend the book?  It hardly matters.  Readers have been waiting 6-8 years for this book, depending on how you look at it.  It is essential and that makes it a crying shame.  It is well-written, though not quite to the levels in the first three books.  I worry that the seven books we've been promised will sprawl further, as the later Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time series did.  This is epic fantasy and epic tragedy.
5 Can't put the book down.  Keep em coming. Quite possibly one of the best series of books that I have read in a long time.
2 Pages and pages of meaningless details and dozens of characters who go nowhere, like book 4. What a shame, after the promise of books 1-3.
2 I'm not investing anymore time or money in this series. 5 years between books and the author coughs up this Hairball. George needs to get over himself.
4 The last (unfortunately) book of the series did not disappoint me and to some degree satisfied the nagging question &#34;what next?&#34;.  However at the end one is left with a &#34;world&#34; in turmoil, many characters still in process of reaching their goal. I wish I could force Mr. Martin to continue with this saga.
4 While I do understand the disappointment of many readers of ADWD, I can't help but disagree.  Perhaps this is because I didn't start reading the novels in the 1990s and read them all straight through in a row.  I also know that there will be 7 books in the series, which made me not expect a complete resolution by the end of this book.  What I think Feast and Dance do accomplish, is to broaden the spectrum of the fantasy world in which all of these events are occurring, introduce new characters, some of which I liked, some of which I found dull, but could tell that in the greater context they would eventually become important.  I am not going to put in any spoilers, because I read one idiots review of this book that ruined a major event for me, but, I can say that it has plenty of action as well as prophecy.  I can also say it has plenty of slow moving chapters as well.  Not every chapter in the books can be exciting and action packed when you are portraying such a vast viewpoint of a completely different world from the eyes of many.  I think the biggest problem people have with Feast and Dance is that they are not nearly as Stark-centralized narratives.  While the Starks were the first family of honor and the protagonists that we were introduced to, a complex story of this size would be boring if it only revolved around them.  That is what makes A Song of Ice and Fire unique.  The good guys don't always win.  It makes fantasy more realistic.  I probably agree with some that certain charatcers did not need POV chapters, their stories could have been told through other's POVs.  But it is what it is.  and the 4th and 5th books of the series are setting up what will hopefully be a fantastic finish in the 6th and 7th as we continue to explore this wonderful world that Martin has created.  That being said, if you are very emotionally attached to the Starks and don't find other characters as interesting, it is pretty much OK to stop at Book 3.  You won't be disappointed, and HBO will show you their version of the rest of the story anyway.  So if Feast and a Dan are daunting, skip them.  But bashing them is irrational as they are a logical progression of the story addressing the world outside of Westeros, Winterfell and Kings Landing.
3 By now you've probably read all of the lukewarm reviews of "Dance with Dragons."This is yet another. But I think I know what's going on.GRRM needs two very important things to happen before he can move the story forward. Both of these things take time.First, he needs for winter to come. All of the dangers hinted at beyond the wall only stir in the dead of winter.Second, and most importantly, he needs Dany's dragons to grow up. She can't very well march into Westeros with three dragons the size of ponies.Both of these things have happened by the end of "Dance with Dragons." And not much else.Looked at this way the entirety of "Dance with Dragons" could be summed up with the words "Eighteen Months Later..." Aside from that GRRM has given us maybe 300 pages of story wrapped up 1000 pages of book.So, I would rate "Dance with Dragons" as completely "skipable." It's okay, but don't expect much to happen. We really are just waiting for time to pass.That said, the chapters with Tyrion were a little troubling. Without much story our favorite halfman was left wandering around getting into pointless adventures and making wisecracks. GRRM would honestly, truly done everyone a favor (Tyrion especially) by just leaving these chapters out altogether.Finally, I'm glad I read "Dance." I'm a huge fan of GRRM and the series.But, in the end, it's the weather and the dragons that are the stars of this book.If you set your expectations accordingly it's worth a read.
5 Love all the books as well as the HBO series. I am hooked, these are long books but I read all of them start to finish in a couple of months. Captivating, the HBO series follows pretty closely. Only complaint I have on the series as a whole, The story isn't finished and while I am happy to continue reading, I worry Martin wont be able to finish. Love it!
5 What can I say? This book............series is great!!!! The book arrived on time, the cost was reasonable. I would suggest reading all the books as opposed to just watching the HBO series, as the writers of the show do not follow the book's storyline.
1 I don't know about you, but one of the reasons I got a kindle was that on-line books were cheaper.  The paperback is selling for 9.99 but the kindle is 14.99.  I will wait thank you very much.
5 A Dance with Dragons just left me wanting more...as every other novel in the series has. The only problem this time is that I can't currently have any more, as the next book has not yet been published...
5 I fell for the series hook line and sinker. Mycomplaint is that I have to wait for the nextbook to come out. This is the fifth book in theGame of Thrones series. Actually, I could complainthat my favorite characters are gone or thatthe story of power and domination resemblelife today for many around the world.  The booksare unpredictable, captivating and totally withoutregard for my wish for happy endings and justicefor all. So perhaps because of that rather than inspiteof those things, I tremendously enjoy this series.
3 I looked forward to reading Book 5, A Dance with Dragons, in the Song of Ice and Fire series.  I was eager to learn what happened to characters from past books.  After reading the entire book, I was disappointed to find that I still am looking for the answers.
5 I just finished A Dance with Dragons and the first thing I said when I did was "He has got to finish this series" I started reading this series after watching the first episode of the series on HBO.  I have fallen in love with the characters and I am a fan of the writing style and the way that while reading "Game of Thrones" I felt like I was being beckoned into a world that I felt a kinship to.  It's all very Machiavellian the style of these books, everyone is striving to end up on top, and the people who are not trying to win end up being crushed under foot.  In this book I found that the characters that I have come to care about, are being drawn to a precipice and they will end up on the winning side or the losing side.  There were new characters including a unforeseen player in this game that for all intents and purposes has been hiding in the wings of this story waiting to come out and change the game.  I want to say that I understand that some people are particularly fond of the time that it takes for these books to come out but to be honest, no fantasy series since "Lord Of The Rings" has completely pulled me into the mind of the writer.  Tyrion is at his best being a man who is underestimated but always manages to come out on top, Cersi is down but I don't think for the count.  The 'spider' is up to his old tricks because like Tyrion he is underestimated.  It's still anyone's game, but who will win and who will die?
2 Looked forward to this for many years.  Now that I have started it I am not sure I will go to the end.  This is because I don't think anything will happen.  In the first 500 pages we have not gotten anywhere.  Nothing looks to be close to resolution.  Characters are either struting in place or wandering aimlessly.I can put up with Dave Weber's data dumps because you know that something will happen by the end of the book.  After the previous book I had my doubts we would get any answers.  Now I am almost sure that we will be wondering we this book was written when we finished it.
2 I read G.R.R.Martin's Song of Ice and Fire Series several years ago and loved them. I re-read them recently to prepare not only for the publication of A Dance With Dragons but also before I watched the HBO series starting with A Game of Thrones.  I was excited at the prospect of a new chapter in Stark and Lannister lives but I was very disappointed.  It seemed as if he had written his first draft, chopped it down to 995 pages and given it to his publishers without editing or reviewing the content. Had I not read his first four novels in the series I wouldn't have read past Chapter Five.  Yes, he warned his fans some of the characters from the earlier books would not appear in this book but their stories would be taken up in Book 6. That wasn't the issue. It was the lackluster job he did presenting the characters that he did include and their sloppy story lines.Martin has an amazing ability to build credible, fascinating characters that you love or love to hate. Tyrion, for example, is flawed physically but possesses his father's intellect and political savvy without the inherent evil and lust for power (or a sibling!). Not so in this book. The insight, wisdom and basic goodness are just not apparent and I am not looking forward to seeing him joust on a pig's back when HBO gets to the fifth series.  Meanwhile, Brandon Stark wanders north guided by guardians we still know almost nothing about and seems content to become a tree. Jon Snow, newly elected  to command the Watchers on the Wall, is taken out by those who just elected him. Stannis Baratheon is determined to take Winterfell back to rescue the Arya substitute from Roose Bolton's son but nothing happens other than a seige of sorts defeated by the weather.  Ramsay Bolton gets far more ink than he merits and there is way too much detail of his sadistic treatment of " Reek ".  We would have picked up that he was a " bad person" without chapters of gory details that do nothing to move the plot along.. I would much rather know why Theon turned on the family he grew up with and betrayed them.Explicit sex and violence were part of the first four books. They helped paint a picture of an earlier civilization where life was short and often brutal and you took your pleasures where you found them, while you could. A Dance with Dragons just wallows in brutality, sadism and any chance of having sex anywhere, anyhow with anyone. It wasn't offensive or shocking in the earlier book nor was it boring. Sadly not the same could be said about this book.The worst thing was that the story didn't get anywhere, nothing was resolved and new characters with their own, previously unheard story lines  were added to confuse the issue. So the dragons escaped, so the Sand Vipers were released, so Cersei got a little of what we had hoped was coming to her, while Jaime appears to be turning to "good side of the force" under Brienne's influence! After 900+ pages, it didn't really matter. The only part of the book that I really liked was Arya's story and her trials and growth in The House of the Dead.I think if Martin had taken another year to take the manuscript he had and plan more carefully how to divide it into books five and six, he could only have improved his fifth offering. I can't see why the haste when the first HBO series is so successful and so many of us aching for round two... we would have still rushed out to buy Book Five. I doubt I will buy Book Six. I will probably get it out of the library and buy my own copy if it is as good as the first four in the series.
1 I loved the first 3 books. This one was interesting in a way, but disappointing also. The introduction of the new characters, some from feast for crows, made me feel as if the author is just stretching the story, loose ends that hopefully will be tied up in book 6. I look forward to the new book, and hope that we won't have to wait so many years before we can continue reading it.It appears as if Jon Snow has been killed. I hope not, he is an interesting character, like his father, and the other members of the Stark family.
5 Read all five books.  A detailed and engrossing series that maintains interest throughout.  They are a significant investment of time but well worth it
5 Great follow on to Book Four as it continues the lust for the throne.  I found some real surprises in this book that I wasn't expecting and was very pleased with them.  I am looking forward to the next book in the series.  I understand that there is one and maybe two more to the series.  You will be completely engrosses in this series so start with book one.  It takes a little time to get into it and get the characters straight but it is well worth the read.  I highly recommend this book as well as the entire series.
3 I almost feel like not a whole lot of shocking things happened in this book. I still love the series through!
5 Love the story line in all of these books.  Especially like how the dragons start coming of age and what they can now do.  Can't wait for the next book to come out to see what happens.
3 I don't know if I enjoyed this book because I disliked `A Feast for Crows' so immensely, or because it was actually decent. Or perhaps it is neither. I was able to enjoy this book for what it was because I read `A Cavil on Chronology', a brief from Martin in the beginning of the book that says there will be another to follow. With this knowledge I did not expect any resolution - I was just along for the ride.That being said, Martin is long-winded. If you're going to read the series, it just comes with the territory. Accepting this, I still can't get past the feeling that he wastes a lot of the reader's time with chapters that ultimately prove to be unimportant (which is why I found myself skimming over a good bit of AFFC). But hey, if you're writing a money-making series, wouldn't you want to drag out the story over as many books as possible? Guess he learned a thing or two from Robert Jordan.Some of the character's conflicts, however, simply don't make sense. For example, when Stannis offers Jon Snow a lordship at Winterfell, Jon struggles with the decision. Even after he declines the offer, he laments what could have been. What I don't get is how Jon ever believed Stannis had the power and authority to offer such a prize, when he was fully aware of how few in the realm supported Stannis' cause. On the subject of power and support, how could the people of the iron islands be so delusional as to think they had any chance of conquering and ruling Westeros? I mean, what the hell? And what's with Tyrion? In the first three books we come to know him as a sharp, witty, and ultimately honorable man. Then suddenly he is a kinslayer who wants to murder a few other relatives and is riddled with wretched thoughts. It's like he turned into Cersei.It was nice to get back in touch with some characters, and there was at least a mention of Rickon, who seemed to have fallen off the face of planet. I found myself wondering, `What's the main idea of this series?' The answer seems to be: Rule Westeros (though with the way things are going, it won't be much of a prize when all is said and done). The first book endears us to the Starks, so we're going to root for them, right? Yet their position in the kingdom, as it stands now, is tenuous at best. Has Daenerys become the character we are now supposed to hope `wins'? At this point, I'm not sure what outcome I'm supposed to be hoping for based on how Martin has set up and developed the story. And that's one of my big problems with him as a writer, at least with regard to `A Song of Ice and Fire'.The series is interesting enough to keep me reading, though if we have another volume like AFFC I'll be pretty wroth. I acknowledge why he broke up the last two books the way he did, but I'm not sure it was the best story-telling strategy. Also, if you have to explain the screwed up timeline before a reader dives in, then perhaps you might want to re-think things. Plus it would move the story along more seamlessly if we didn't have to keep jumping back and forth in time, and we wouldn't have to wait as long to see what our favorite characters are up to. There's no telling how he will choose to divvy up the story lines in the next book, but here's hoping it is a more blended effort.(less) [edit]
4 If the author does not bring back Jo snow I will delete all these books. Just when I think all is going well VARYS comes back
5 I loved this series.  Unfortunately, this book left me waiting for more.  Thankfully the HBO series is filling the time while I wait or George Martin's next two books to be written.  Book 5 if quite a bit darker than the previous four books but as they say, &#34;Winter is Coming&#34;.  This story sticks with you.
1 Don't get me wrong.  I loved books one, two and three.  LOVED them. After reading book four, I had a strong feeling that Martin was going off the deep end. Chapter after chapter of crap I didn't care about, hundreds of pages of back story download, useless information, useless characters, gobs of side stores and adventures only to finally culminate in disaster for EVERYONE I DID care about.Still I had hope. I thought ... this HAS to get better.So on to book five. The first quarter of the book is a trial. Again, hundreds of pages of back story blather, much of it about characters that were minor in the first books, but suddenly are the central figures in the series ... for no apparent reason.  Theon Greyjoy?  Really?  Why? Suddenly, some old knight that got retired in book one gets page after page of point of view, a new princeling gets his own storyline. Meanwhile, the characters you really want to know about are forgotten, pushed to the wayside, no longer worthy of a page or two when their stories are what made you struggle through all that back story to get to in the first place.STILL, I had hope. So I plowed through the rest of book six, only to be totally and completely furious with what he does in every single storyline. It's almost as if Martin wanted to lose the fantastic readership he had in the beginning. What was he thinking?When you start off a series with a handful of characters the readers love, then KILL EVERY SINGLE ONE, you've got to at some point say, enough is enough.  Did any of his editors try to reign him in??  Did anyone say .... you know, do we HAVE to kill off this guy? We all really like him.  Or, can't we get a little more of THIS person's story?  Her character is interesting and the story is great ... does she HAVE to go through this bloody hell you've designed for her?It would be one thing if he replaced the characters we LOVED with MORE characters we love ... but no. Most are simpering, directionless, two dimensional nuisances, that take the place of fully fleshed out personalities like Eddard Stark, Rob Stark, Brianne the Maid of Tarth... not to mention Jon Snow...Oh, we get a lot of Jon Snow in book five.  But take one guess what happens to him!I want them back.  I want them all back, because the dregs we are left with offer nothing of appeal for me.It seems in Martin's world, all the good guys die. Everything bad you can expect to happen, will. Evil rules the land. We're left with a place no decent person would want to be. If I have the ability to leave a world that seems fraught with nothing but senseless killing, rape, murder, disease, I think I will choose to leave it.Which is why I won't be scrambling to read book six if there is one.  It's time to get out of this world...before I get myself killed, like everyone else does.
4 I have been a Game of Thrones junkie since first watching on a free weekend of premium channel.  I  must say that I have felt somewhat mired down in this book.  I am introduced to a new character, whose name I of course can not pronounce.  I am given the most intimate details of his armor, his hair color, his family tree going back for hundreds of years, and the size of his tally-wacker, only to never hear of him again.  I zoomed through the first four books  like a tornado through Tennessee, and this book did not have the magic for me.  I put it aside for a few months and then picked it up again.  Perhaps I was over doing the Game a bit and had mired myself, no fault of Martin's.I enjoyed it.  It was worth reading to keep going with the series.  I think that often authors who have a story going on for books on end have to fabricate pages of useless information just to keep the publisher happy.  I'm looking forward to the next and apparently last chapters.  It is definitely entertaining and worth  spending more time with all these fabulous characters just to see where they fall  in &#34;The Game Of Thrones&#34;.M.S. Munro
5 I have read all previous Game of Thrones by R.R. Martin. When one of the protagonists was , to the eye, killed off at the end, I put the book down and did not want to read any more of the series. Why does he have to kill off those to whom we become attached?
4 This book was a little too rambling for a five star rating, but good none the less.  It IS an epic tale after all.  Martin at least gives us glimpses of all the main characters whereas in FFC's he left some out entirely.  The frustration comes mainly in anticipating what comes next and we will have to wait a while to find out.  Martin has set up some foreshadowing (I hope) concerning one of the main characters, but he has never promised us even in the first book that those characters we know and love will make it to the end.  Whether he is pruning characters to make the last battle solely between good and evil or just playing with us remains to be seen.  I am invested in the story and will see it to the bitter or triumphant end.  At least I will have the HBO series to keep me company while he writes the conclusion.
3 Loved the first four books. This one was long and boring, but I felt I had to plow through it just in case the next book in the series was of the quality of the first four.Not sure exactly where this saga will continue from here, but the characters that remain seem shells of their former selves. Most of the attractive characters have died.George Martin is a wonderful fantasy writer and I'm always amazed at how he presents a huge cast of characters to the reader without confusion.
3 It is understandable, when one considers the fact of how long a gap there was between "Feast for crows" and "A Dance with Dragons", that many people are going to be disappointed. When you're an author, you can't have it both ways - you have to choose/make compromise between what hard-core fans expect and your own artistic integrity and/or vision. Before the HBO show started, I wasn't sure that anyone still reading this series isn't a hard-core fan - you'd have to be pretty persistent to remain around Westeros for this long. Nowadays, things are a bit different. I don't consider myself to be a hard-core fan of this series. I liked what Martin did in first three books, I even liked the fourth one (despite angry mob being angry for no apparent reason) but the fifth one takes the whole "oh my god moment" to a new level. After waiting for so many years one can't but be disappointed. There are many good things in this book, Martin still knows his storytelling. Overall, though, it's a giant jumble in a dire need of a proficient editor.Anyway, there are many things one can talk about concerning this book and it's hard to choose between them. Space on the Amazon is rather short and one should avoid technicalities and ramblings. I've yet to learn how to avoid latter. Let's try to think about facts we have at hand. "A dance with dragons" is 5th book in a series of seven. That means 71% of the Saga is completed. By the way, I won't be putting spoiler tags so tread carefully. So then, what is yet to happen? Eventually, Danny has to return to Westeros and conquer some towns. Preferably the one with Iron Throne in it. Of course, there are Others and impounding battle between forces of Ice and Fire. This is bound to have a lasting impact on an entire universe. Arya has to grow up eventually, return to Westeros as well, and do some avenging. Spider and Littlefinger have to hatch whatever plot they're hatching and so on. There are a number of open story-threads that need to be closed.Average number of pages per book (up to this point) is around 850. "A dance with dragons" alone has 1056. That is almost 25% more than average. So we have the longest book yet in which several things happen. Many severals in fact. Most of them are people eating and parading around. There are bits of this and that scattered around as well. What is important to note is this. In this book, Danny had to assert control on Meereen (a single town), Stannis had to rally support of North (by conquering a single town), Jon had to build up his defenses, Victarion had to sail across the sea, and the other Targaryen had to be pulled out of the ass to further disintegrate the plot. Thousand pages later, nothing of this actually happened. Danny is no longer in Meereen (dragons magically grew up despite the fact that in some earlier book someone mentioned that this would require years) but battle there is far from over. Stannis got stuck in a snow storm beneath the walls of Winterfell. Arya had two chapters in which she did some killing but essentially run around in circles. Varys appeared, oh how conveniently, out of the blue to kill Kevan Lannister (because he can). Victarion just barely made it to the other shore, and Jon was stuck on the wall and ended up repeatedly stabbed. Oh, and Bran met some nice tree and had a little chat with him. Basically, in 1056 pages key characters moved few miles accomplishing meager things. It sort of reminds me of some conservative chess openings that I've seen people do just to irritate their opponents.Remember what is yet to happen? Remember that there are only two books left? What can we conclude from known facts? There are several options. If pace remains the same, upcoming books will be 4k+ pages mammoths with people running around avoiding to do things. If average page count remains the same we can expect the pace becoming lightning quick with people teleporting around doing things they should've been doing all this time. Or, we can expect that seventh book won't be the final one. In any of these cases, when one has in mind the speed of Martin's writing and/or publishing of these books, we can assume that we will never see the ending of these series. If we actually do, it will be far from satisfying.Martin needs an Editor. Martin needs and Editor which will beat him with a stick whenever he sees him writing another paragraph on honeyed locusts, roasted dogs, kidney puddings and Coat of Arms of some minor lordling with a complete history of his minor House. What we need isn't another "Wheel of Time". What we got with this book is something just like that - A giant filler full of random ramblings (Pretty Pig and the whole Tyrion story arc - seriously?) that make you wonder why are you still reading this book, and why will you read the next one when it comes out in a couple of years. I still don't know the answer to this.
1 Gypped and hoodwinked again!  After the first three imaginative, action-packed volumes, the last two have been pathetically painful. I was hoping Martin had taken some advice from his fans after the disaster that was A Feast for Crows.  Apparently not.  Obviously, Martin is going for the "stretching out the series with filler trash a la Robert Jordan show-me-the-money" angle, and abandoning all pretense of imagination, decent writing and character development. Why do these series have to go on and on if there's nothing worth reading? Amping up the soft porn and vulgar language is the only nod to "action" anywhere in this book, maybe a boon to all the lonely nerds camped out in their parents' basements, but not to me.Too many characters discussing nothing, endless repetition of themes (yes, we know Daenerys is unsure, young, and horny.  WHERE ARE THE DRAGONS???  Yes, we know Theron has broken teeth and missing fingers and Ramsay is a sadistic monster.  WHEN IS THE REVENGE??? Yes, we know Jon Snow is young, unsure and being challenged at every turn.  WHEN DOES HE TAKE CHARGE??? Lord Manderly is slovenly, the Lannisters are cruel, Tyrion is the misunderstood Imp, etc, etc) It takes 500+ pages for anything to happen, and it didn't tie up all the unraveling threads of endless characters no one cares about. Creating new characters is no substitute for a good story.Boring boring boring.  A shameful sputtering end to a promising beginning.
5 So far I haven't really found one book any better than the others, it's basically just one fantastic series.This is the first series where I didn't know from the beginning what was going to happen.
5 Can't wait to see how this series ends, but seriously, I expected more dancing.  And I need six more words.
5 Strange things have happened with the reviews of this book.  I've read through 250 reviews, sorted by `most helpful'.  Overall, numbers of 4/5 reviews and 1/2s are almost equal, but the vast majority of the top 250 are 1/2s.  Clearly the 1/2 reviewers - the "anti-fans" - are more diligent in approving each others' reviews.[And there are odd similarities between many of the anti-fan reviews.  An inability to spell the word "too" keeps cropping up.  Perhaps it's just a co-incidence that so many fans share a common illiteracy.  Or sockpupptry.]  [Edit added on 12 April: people have commented that this paragraph is offensive.  It wasn't intended (a) to offend anyone, or (b) to imply that people who vote 1/2 are in any way less intelligent or literate than those who vote 4/5.  Rather, it was intended as evidence that there is a group (no doubt a small one) of people using multiple usernames to alter the overall rating.  I apologise to anyone who, contrary to my intentions, was in fact offended.]Be that as it may, the anti-fans are certainly dedicated.  And incandescent with rage.  A common theme is that Sword of Storms should have been the end of the introduction of new characters.  Feast for Crows, Dance with Dragons and any subsequent books should, according to this view, be confined to the outworking of the relationship between the characters already introduced.  No more characters are needed, say the anti-fans, nor do we need to bother to explore any other places on the map.But the hardest to swallow of the anti-fan contentions is that nothing happens in Dance with Dragons.  So let's turn to the book and consider this.First, Daenerys.  She spends the book demonstrating her complete unfitness to rule.  She had already left Astapor and Yunkai in chaos, her attempts to smash slavery and bring peace complete failures.  Now, with time to spend in Meereen, and despite her best intention, she comprehensively fails again.  The economy of Slaver's Bay has been destroyed (not that a slave economy deserves to be preserved), its cities set at war, its people decimated by pestilence and bloodshed.  This is not `nothing hapenning'.Though nothing will persuade the anti-fans - nor, it must be said, many of the more misguided characters in the series - of her lack of ability to rule.  There is no reason at all to expect that Dany could do any better in Westeros (a continent she has barely even visited) than Slaver's Bay, yet she continues to command eternal loyalty.  I predict her fans are in for a disappointment.Then, Jon.  By accepting the wildlings through the Wall he has completely transformed the economy and politics of the North.  The free folk will not accept the feudal structure of the Seven Kingdoms.  The ultimate outcome in Westeros will be very different as a result of their presence.  Suddenly Westeros looks a bit less like medieval England, and a bit more like the New World, with American-style democracy about to take foot.This is Jon's major contribution, and we might have to accept that Martin is going to keep writing about conflicts between people.  I'm not at all convinced there will be any ultimate show-down between dragons and Others.  Yes, the dragons may become controllable if Victorion ever learns to use his Horn of Dragon Control.  More likely, the Horn will prove to be as useless a distraction as Mance Rayner's Horn, and the dragons will turn out to be a once-invincible weapon that can no longer be used, like Greek Fire in our world.  And the Others may remain more potent as an inchoate threat.  Like Saddam's weapons of mass destruction.So Jon has played his part, and I can't regret his death too much.  Though it's pretty clear he managed to warg into Ghost at the end.  The point of the Prologue about Varamyr Sixskins was surely to explain to us just how this would be done.Then there's Tyrion.  I must admit I'm not entirely sure where his character is going.  I read an article about Peter Dinklage recently which reported him as saying he hadn't read the whole series, and just read each script as it came.  I doubt that he's going to like being asked to ride a pig.  But the device of Tyrion being sent on a journey to show us the countryside is hardly new.  He began Game of Thrones by travelling up to the Wall, for little purpose except to show us what it was like.  And his capture by Catelyn Stark and imprisonment by Lisa Arryn - neither of which revealed the cunning and skill in manipulating events for which he is so renowned - seemed to serve little purpose other than show us what they Eyrie was like.  So I struggle to see why the anti-fans are so enraged by a repetition of the device in Dance with Dragons.Perhaps Tyrion doesn't do everything I'd like to see him do in this book.  But hey, if I only wanted to read a book where the characters only did what I wanted them to do, I'd write it myself.The anti-fans are disappointed by Quentyn.  Why?  Again, a lot happens with him in this book.  He completes a story, from Dorne, to take ship at Volantis, to the sell-swords, to die releasing the dragons - a key step in the unfolding disaster in Meereen.  The anti-fans loved Ned Stark's unexpected death in Game of Thrones, and they loved Robb Stark throwing away his life for a stupid marriage triggering the Red Wedding.  So why do they hate Quentyn's death in the interest of freeing the dragons?Yes, Ned was a true and brave man of principle.  Robb was ... well, not quite Ned, and perhaps not very bright to rush into a marriage with the first girl who would sleep with him, but nevertheless a stirring young leader.  Quentyn is even less inspirational.  But I think that's deliberate.  The heroes are declining in quality.At the same time, the villains are increasing in decadence.  Tywin Lannister was cruel, but strong and with some justification that what he did was in the interest of the kingdom.  Whereas Ramsay Bolton is just vile.And these trends match the declining condition of the land, as we saw in Feast for Crows, with formerly fertile fields laid waste and villages damaged and emptied by war.It's a coherent and striking picture of a world in decay.Where is this going?  Must we look to the broken Reek/Theon to save Westeros?  Maybe, though somehow I doubt it.I don't think Dany will be the saviour of the kingdoms.  As I've said above, she simply is not a credible ruler, and the wild folk will be the factor that triggers a groundswell of objection in Westeros to accept a Targaryen - whose words are `Fire and Blood' and whose modus operandi is to burn their enemies to death and never mind the collateral damage - merely because her ancestors once ruled.Aegon is a possibility, but I think he'll crash and burn, like other hopefuls Robb and Quentyn before him.The answer may be a character we've yet to meet, and who is a favourite of the free folk.  Or we may finish with a recapitulation of the Doom of Valyria, and discover that seasons are not the only things that can outlast their welcome in this world - as in the ending of Asimov's `Nightfall', `The long night had come again'.Or  we might have to accept that the book series will never be finished, and instead the TV series will overtake it, departing from the books at some point.  In that case we'll need a conclusion that fits the conventions of American film-making.  This will require a happy ending, with triumph by a strong and good hero.  It can't be Daenerys or any other Targaryen: too feudal, and neither democratic nor meritocratic enough for an American audience.  Dynasties play well in America, but only if they don't go on too long - for example, the Kennedys, or the Bushes or Clintons.  So that means a Baratheon would be perfect.  I would put my money on Edric Storm.
2 Just like a fish, I was hooked with the first three books and now I'm writhing in pain, just trying to get away. The last two parts, including "A Dance With Dragons," have failed to capture my imagination like the series originally did. The books have morphed into the "Oregon Trail" game. It just feels like Martin is walking in circles to nowhere, moving in slow motion, gradually killing off every core character in the process. Unfortunately, just like thousands (or perhaps millions) of others, I'll still probably purchase the final books, just so I don't feel like I've completely wasted my time reading the others. I fear by the end, though, just like all of Martin's characters, I will have died of dysentery.
4 Like the previous 4 books in the Ice and Fire stories, George RR Martin continues to captivate me with this incredible ensemble of characters and their multiple layers of stories that all play together in some form or another.Minor SpoilersBut just like A Feast Of Crows, A Dance With Dragons suffers from the problem of not a lot happening. Both books build up a lot and resolve nothing. Instead leaving its fans frustrated with a series of cliffhangers and unanswered questions. In Dance, the story slowly builds up to two major battles in the story and after reading page 1000 you realize that Martin has no intention to actually deliver the battles in this book, instead making you wait until the next book to find out what happened. Like Feast, this book appears to be about putting all of the characters in place for Martin's end game, whatever that is.Other than the prologue and epilogue, this story features 16 different POV characters though the bulk of the chapters come from Jon Snow, Daenerys Targaryen and Tyrion Lannister. I've always liked reading these characters chapters and Jon Snow continue continues to be one of the best characters in the books in my opinion, but the other two character's chapters became a bit tiresome after awhile especially Dany's.Tyrion's entire arc seems to be about him running into different groups and people along the way, finding out their plans and abandoning him (or getting captured) by another group until he gets where he wants to be. Dany's is in Meereen and there is no end in sight and instead of her coming to Westeros, Westeros is coming to her with several POV characters attempting to narrow sea to meet her though the big players don't actually complete the trip in this book.Jon's still on the wall and he's trying to tow the political line between doing what's right for the Watch and the realm and keeping his alliance with Stannis Baratheon, who is still looking to raise an army and do what he feels is necessary to protect the realm. The interaction between these two characters are some of my favorite moments of the book (probably because they are my two favorite characters). Jon begins to look for help in places he would least suspect in order to help the Night's Watch prepare for the inevitable attack of the Others as a new threat emerges from a place Lord Snow least expected.Another pleasant surprise POV was that of Reek aka Theon Greyjoy. Last we read he had been taken prisoner from the Bolton's and was being tortured. When we find Theon he has been completely broken by the torture of Roose Bolton's sadistic son Ramsay. Gone is the overconfident smagger and all that's left is a meek little man who lives as the family dog and follows Ramsay's every order in complete fear. Reek refuses to allow himself to think about who he used to be but Theon has still got to in there somewhere right? After the evils he's committed there's nothing left for Theon at this point except salvation of his soul.Again, I think the book is great. Its another incredible chapter in the Ice and Fire series but don't go into this expecting any major revelations or resolutions. Its a set up book to get the characters in place for the next one.
5 It  looks like a lot of others didn't like this or the fourth book. I did. I read all five in the last 8 or so months with a few breaks where I read 6 or so other books. Always loved getting back to these. Took a while to get into the fourth with new characters, but after I did, I had a hard time stopping.  Huge let down at the end of this one knowing I am going to have to wait a long time before I get another fix. But I guess I'll watch the HBO series in the meantime.  Hope the old man doesn't die before he finishes the series. Just wanted to submit the review to counter-balance the "haters".
2 I have read all 5 books and find them to have a rediculous plot, there are too many villains. It lacks a believable plot line or redeemig value. Some of the characters are interesting but most of the plot twists are rediculous.
1 Nothing happens and those things that do happen just piss you off... the book go no where and once you hit the last 5 chapters you want to throw it out the window becuase of what happens to a certain character...I loved all the other books, this one just dragged its feet and dissapoints severally.Not sure if I even want to purchase the last 2 in the series when they appear in 2035~ only took what 5 years for this one..../rant
2 George R. R. Martin is a brilliant writer and he proves it here again. The problem is he has turned into a terrible storyteller. He does very little in ADWD to move the plot of the previous novels forward. I've highlighted a few of the many problems with the book below. Spoilers are ahead, so read at your own risk:-Why is Dany in Meereen for the whole book? What does this accomplish? Her character essentially resets at the end by meeting a khalasar on the Dothraki sea, but this time she can control a dragon. Did we really need hundreds of pages of her pining over Daario and worrying about her "children" that we don't care about at all? Get to Westeros already, woman!-Tyrion embracing his dwarfish ways, but doing relatively little throughout the book. I always enjoyed the Tyrion chapters, but they were extremely unsatisfying this time around. The only ones that were any good did not have to do with him, but with the introduction of Griff and Aegon.-The cliffhanger with Jon Snow that really seems laid on a little too think to be believable. And yet we still don't know about his parentage.-Jaime having one chapter that ended in a completely unsatisfying way.-Quentyn Martell's storyline bursting literally into flames; no point at all to the whole subplot.-Davos going off to find Rickon? Why? Rickon didn't ever factor into the books before, why should we care what happens to him?-Bran can look through trees...really? That's his power? Sigh...Bran somehow needs to be integrated into the proper plot of the books. So far he is just there being Bran.I really could keep going on and on about the deficits of this book. Granted, there were some good things that happened. I enjoyed Theon's and Barristan's chapters, since they are great characters (though I miss Theon now that he's Reek). Also, the addition of Aegon and Jon Connington shook things up immensely. Finally a Targaryen is in Westeros! (though not the one I expected).Basically, this just seemed like endless setup with very little that actually happened. I don't know if Martin has become paralyzed with his popularity, unable to appease both his fanbase and his editors (what editing they do is beyond me), or maybe he just doesn't know where his story is ultimately going.The Winds of Winter has been setup with 2 novels now over the course of 11 years. If Martin cannot deliver after spending 2,000 pages setting the stage, then he needs to relinquish his purported "best living fantasy writer" crown.I hope it doesn't disappoint. This one, however, did.
3 'A Dance with Dragons' is the fifth novel in George R.R. Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire series. I haven't included any spoilers about 'Dance' in this review, but it is impossible to discuss the book without revealing events from the first four. So if you haven't readA Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)(1996) and its sequels, go ahead and get yourself caught up. I'll wait.Okay, now that we're all on the same page (literally), you're probably a little unsatisfied byA Feast for Crows (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 4)(2005). After all, as Martin writes in the afterword, "Wait a minute, wait a minute! Where's Dany and the dragons? Where's Tyrion? We hardly saw Jon Snow. That can't be all of it..." Fortunately, that is correct. The story Martin set out to tell in 'Feast' was too big to fit in just one book, so he divided it into two. 'Dance' tells the rest of the story, although like all of the other books in the series, it ends with more loose ends than knots.In 'Dance,' the game of thrones is far from over, and it has become clear that the game is not worth winning (though losing is much worse). Only one of the original claimants in the "War of Five Kings" still lives, but new contenders keep popping up. The fight for control of Westeros has become a world war, with new fronts opening up north of the Wall and across the Narrow Sea.Martin's great strength is his ability to flesh out all of his characters by regularly shifting point of view. Cersei Lannister, in particular, begins the saga as a calculating ice queen, but is startlingly human in 'Feast' and 'Dance.' Like the real world, Westeros contains no heroes or villains, just people whose mistakes cause unintended suffering.This review originally appeared in Pop Mythology.Matt HlinakAuthor ofDoG
4 Story is dragging at this point. I think this was a big improvement over book 4, but so little happens compared to the first 3 books. So much of what does happens seems to be told secondhand. Honestly, I think the show will be better.
4 I liked the book, and it is significantly better than most in this genre, but it leaves a lot to be desired. Basically, this is a book that is building up to another book, but has no climax of it's own. Nothing is resolved and basically, you feel that the plot of the entire novel has been left to drift down a river like Twyin. This feels a lot like books 7-11 of the Wheel of Time series, meaning that you just want something, anything to get resolved for a damn change.
4 George R. R. Martin&#8217;s A Dance with Dragons manages to do what its less exciting twin, A Feast for Crows, couldn&#8217;t -- reignite my love for the A Song of Ice and Fire series.Events are more exciting than those of A Feast of Crows, and Martin drops more than a few page-turning cliffhangers throughout the book as he builds the grand narrative back up to another climactic peak. But, it&#8217;s a ponderous build-up at times, with disappointingly empty chapters and side-plots and supporting characters that seem to veer nowhere.The book has a better pedigree than its predecessor. It&#8217;s filled with Martin&#8217;s best and most beloved characters in Tyrion Lannister, Jon Snow, Arya Stark, and Daenerys Targaryen. Martin throws into that mix some familiar faces like Theon &#8220;Reek&#8221; Greyjoy, who&#8217;s misery may top all of Westeros, which is saying much. And, one of my favorites, Davos Seaworth, appears early only to disappear for the remainder of the book in a puzzling absence.For most of these favorites, things happen. Jon Snow deals with the hard (and sharp!) realities of being a leader of the Night&#8217;s Watch. Arya earns her mysterious stripes. Tyrion travels vast distances and sees many thing. But, Daenerys &#8212; ah, Daenerys is the trouble. Really, it&#8217;s her book and her transformation. But, like Cersei Lannister&#8217;s chapters in A Feast for Crows, her chapters plod on, one after another of off-stage events as she struggles to be queen. Her transformation is glorious, but getting there is a slog.Then there are the new bloods &#8212; perspective characters like Quentyn Martell, Victarion Greyjoy, and Jon Connington. Martin seems to be playing with these new voices and events. His success wavers. Quentyn Martell feels superfluous, even irrelevant. Victarion more so, though he seems to have something major in store for Daenerys.Given the death and destruction Martin inflicts on his characters, especially to the Stark family, there must be room for new voices like these. But, several thousand pages in, is Martin&#8217;s exploring a vast, wondrously dangerous playground or weaving one of the grandest fantasy narratives ever written? That question keeps me interested, but a little disappointed when these detours end abruptly. They drive home, painfully, his themes about ruthlessness and ambition, of fickle fates and violence, but test our trust that there is anything here worth rooting for, worth investing in.Still, with A Dance with Dragons, there is a sense that Martin is that good -- that all my fellow readers and I suffering for our favorite characters will see some pay off, some day, and we&#8217;ll earn a grand and satisfying ending.
5 People tend to not give a feast for crows and a dance with dragons enough credit.  Granted a storm of swords was the best and my personal favorite in the series, but these books are great in their own right. A dance with dragons was more a set up for the coming winds of winter and a must read for a song of ice and fire fan.
5 Is no one safe?  The conclusion will have to be made of all new cast members. Can't wait to read it!
5 I have now read the first five books in the Song of Fire and Ice, and this fifth book has grown upon me during the second reading. Although it leaves the reader with more questions than it answers--and so many cliffhangers that we are left slavering for the next volume--this book also provides a rich tapestry of events for the reader. Some of our favorite characters are still alive, while bad things happen to some good people--but I will provide no spoilers!For Martin fans, another great read.
3 Overall, I enjoyed reading it but with some serious misgivings about the book.I'd say the biggest flaw in the book is the sheer number of characters.  There are just too many characters I don't like.  And by don't like, I mean I find them boring, not that I don't like the way they act or their personality.  Plus, Martin spends too many pages just describing scenery and what kind of clothing people are wearing.  Too much of the book feels like padding only there to fill in some pages.The series itself has now become so long and the story so complex that even though I've read every book in the series, I've lost track of who some of the characters are.  Some chapters feature characters that I have no idea who they are or what they're doing.Nothing gets resolved in this book.  No major plotlines have come to a conclusion.  We still don't know who the Others are or why the dead are coming back to life.  And that was a plot point featured in the prologue of the very first book!  The whole book just feels like a swimmer treading water, just keeping his head above the ocean and not going anywhere.To sum it up:Some very good and interesting characters and stories in the book.  But there are just too many boring patches and too many characters I don't care about.I wish this book had been the final book in the series.  Not just because I don't want to wait another 5 years for the next book but because the series itself is becoming so long and complicated.  If the next book comes out in a year or two I'll probably get it.  But if it takes longer than that forget it.I give it a 3 stars out of 5 rating.
1 This book should have been called A Dance With Nothing. Because &#34;Nothing&#34; is exactly what happens. The author flat-out admits in the forward that this book is nothing but clippings from the cutting floor of the last book. And man does it show. I can't actually give you spoilers because there aren't any. And most ironically? The dragons aren't even in the book, except for maybe four pages!Here's a summary the action in book 5:48 pages of random conversation that doesn't relate to anything.One sentence description of somebody getting killed.^^ repeat about 20 times.Seriously, there's a chapter called &#34;Dude on a Horse.&#34;The magic has really gone out of this series for me. I hope the next book is a million times better than this!
5 The saga continues in A Dance With Dragons. This is not a book that is for a light reader, you have to take your time to absorb everything going on. Once I started I could not put down.
3 I have mixed feelings about this book. Lots of good stuff goes on and as usual GRRM creates vivid descriptions. However, in this book there was so much going on, so I felt that the story with Daenery's long-lost nephew was really unnecessary. There is already a lot of stories going on - at the Wall, in Dorne, at King's Landing, in Meereen, etc etc that to have this extra story jammed in is just overkill.I found the premise of him being 'saved' and another baby put in his place to be hard to believe, as this would imply that Varys knew Elia would die. Honestly, this book was already so thick that cutting out the entire Aegon storyline would have benefited.Nonetheless, I am still eager for the sixth book of this series, especially with the cliffhanger ending we got for several of the characters, and hope that Winds of Winter will come out soon!
5 Can't wait for the next one! He leaves such great cliff hangers. Wish he hadn't killed one of my favorite characters...or did he? :)
4 The fifth book in the Game of Thrones series was not my favorite, but it's still the best game in e fantasy world. I look forward to the next story and hope Mr. Martin leaves some of my favorite character alive.
4 Lots of surprises and a lot of action.  If this was the final book in the series, the ending was unsatisfactory.  If there is another book coming, this was a great build up to whatever finale Martin has in store for his readers.
5 One just keeps waiting for the author to write more books.
3 I feel like most of the reviews sum up my thoughts quite well, but here is my two cents. This series started off as an original, intricate and engaging story. Unfortunately after the first few books, the story has come to a virtual standstill. I find that this book is like climbing a mountain; you can take the straight route to the top which may bypass a few sights, but gets you there quick, or you can switchback your way up and take your time. I feel like Martin has switchbacked, doubled back, stopped for lunch and then decided to go back down and try the other side of the mountain. The characters are still engaging but after the twentieth kidnapping, I as a reader started to get a little restless. Danaerys has been in the desert for so long I am becoming bored with who used to be my favorite character. Cersei is predictable in her actions by this point, and I really couldn't care less about all the drama happening at the Iron Throne. I am hopeful that Martin will pick up the pace and reunite all of our beloved characters in an epic battle, an overseas war..heck at this point I'd settle for a drunken feast. At this rate I feel like Bran will live out his days as a tree, Tyrion will ride off on a pig into the sunset and Danaerys will get swallowed by a sandstorm.I wish I could be as drawn in to this book as I was for the first few. But it was a struggle to finish to be honest. Here's hoping Mr. Martin picks up the pace with the next few books.Thats my opinion of it. You don't have to agree, and I hope you liked it more than I did, but unfortunately, I found it to be a let down.
4 I truly did enjoy this book. I agree with other reviewers in saying that not much "new" stuff happens, but it was still a good read. I hope his next book provides more meat, less potatoes.
4 Good lords, compared to all other books, this one is the one that took me longer to read. While I do like pretty much all the characters in the series, my favorite ones showed up more frequently in A Feast for Crows, so the reading of A Dance With Dragons was awfully dragged back. Absolutely NOTHING seemed to happen until near the end of the book, and compared to the previous books, even the occurrences of the end of the book don't really seem as shocking as the end of A Storm of Swords and A Feast for Crows. For several pages, it felt like the author was just filling the pages with trifle things (specially banquet descriptions. Seriously, whenever I read any chapter that has banquets in it, it feels like he wrote that when he was absolutely starving). In a way, it's good, it helps you to picture the whole scenario quite better. But after this has been going on for over a thousand pages, it starts getting very tiring.Nevertheless, I never felt so glad to finish reading a book. I'm finally free from heavy spoilers for another while.
5 I am as obsessed with GEORGE R R MARTIN'S as I was with Steven King back in the 70's and 80's. I am so absorbed with all his books I go back and read passages in his other books in the series.  Of all his characters. I like the DRAGONS best.  No, I really love them.  So I currently am downloading all of Martin's. Books.  DRAGONS was a FIVE all the way.
1 Time Magazine needs to take back their statement that GRRM is the "American Tolkien."  Tolkien was never this tedious, not even in the Silmarillion (which sorely tested my patience).  Hell, I'd take a book of JRR's lengthy elvish ballads over this dreck any day of the week.I lost patience with this series 2 books ago, but I felt revitalized after watching the superlative HBO series this spring.  I think that made things worse, actually, since Peter Dinklage was so amazing as Tyrion and in this book Tyrion is reduced to drivel.Other reviewers have covered the many problems with this book already, so I won't rehash.  I will say that it is now clear to even the most devoted GRRM fans that he has gotten to full of himself to write a decent book anymore.  He believes his own press and as a result has become a pretentious wind-bag who needs a swift kick in the pants and a fascist editor who will slash his work to the bone.
5 I wish the next book was out I hate waiting for the next book.... it takes a look long. The show is just as good or better than the book series.
1 I don't have a well-versed couple of paragraphs for this final book in this series. All I can say is I read the reviews before I bought it...said I would NOT buy it...and then I did...and I should not have. i am only 65% thru the book and at this point...I just want it to end so i can move on to something else. Heed what ur gut is telling u and don't buy it, no matter how much you want to find out about Cersei and Dany....who is a twittering fool who has not accomplished her mission so far.
5 Sort of a sequel to &#34;A Feast of Crows&#34; Further study of characters we have met. Hope I don't have to wait too long for book 6.
5 Wonderfully written.  I am only 20% (Kindle) of the way through but am enjoying this book immensely.  Beautifully written and I will hate when it ends.  I realize that the never-ending storyline drives people crazy but the real horror is when the last page of the last book is turned and there is nothing left to expect, ever.  Get the book, enjoy the ride and read as it is a wonderful literary trip.  Read the series again if you are frustrated with the publishing schedule.  Just love great writing and the turtle description was great.
2 I tried to like this edition of the story but unfortunately there were few chapters that captured my imagination. Wordy, descriptive, little action. I know it's mid story but I have no interest in all the courses of a meal. On top of that I think GRRM has pretty much knocked off the most interesting people and fails to create new ones who capture you.
3 Well, it's out, much to the relief of many fans around the world. The big question is whether or not it was worth the wait. The answer, sadly, is "maybe".Thankfully, George R.R. Martin continues to write in an entertaining and effective manner. The book retained my interest throughout, and there are a lot of books these days that don't.Unfortunately, what the book fails to do is advance the plot of the series in anything resembling a timely matter. Do big events occur? A couple, very late in the book, but most of the book deals with characters waiting, and waiting, and waiting some more. Or travelling towards a destination that they just can't reach. Tyrion remains the luckiest character in the series - as well as the most entertaining - for any other character would likely be dead if he'd gone through everything the dwarf went through.The book also advances - if you'd call it that - the ongoing story of the dragon queen, Dany. Much of the book concerns her thrashing around and making bad decisions, whilst other relatively major characters try to meet her, and mostly fail to do so. As an exercise in the continued frustration of the goals of the characters, this book really comes up trumps.If I were to compare this book and Feast of Crows to anything it would be Robert Jordan's "Crossroads of Twilight", where he attempted something different, and then realised it was a mistake. Unfortunately, it is much more of a structural flaw with the Song of Ice and Fire books that I can't see Martin getting out of easily: Too many POVs, not enough advancement of the story. And given that it's taken 10 years to write what is, in essence, one big book which doesn't do enough, my hopes of a speedy resolution to the series are fading.This is not to say that nothing happens: Jon Snow gets to build up the Night Watch and the wildlings, Dany gets some dragon time, and Stannis gets caught in a blizzard. (Oh, wait, that last is nothing happening...) Melisandre also becomes a lot more fallible and a lot more human. If you believe that she's interpreted any of her prophecies correctly by the end of the book, you're a kinder person than me.Originally, Martin intended the fourth book of the series to take place five years after the third. He changed his plans and ended up writing two books (A Feast of Crows and this book) to bridge the gap. We might have gotten one year out of the two books, I doubt any more. So, what next for the series?George R.R. Martin can still write well, but the pace will need to pick up greatly in the next two books to return the Song of Ice and Fire to the heights it once aspired to.
5 If you love these books you have to read this fifth book. If you've never read these before, then don't read this one first. If you are debating on whether to buy this one after reading the others in quick succession, I would suggest taking a break and returning to the series as I get a little bored with it when I read back to back
5 The down load to my Kindle was so simple and I still have it so I can refer to it anytime. I loved the book but now of course like everyone else I have to wait for the next one! Torture!!!! Anyway Amazon has become my go to book buying for hardbacks, paper or Kindle versions their "1 Click" option is the best option EVER!! Merry K.
1 Halfway through and I can go on no longer. Nothing has happened and judging from other reviews nothing continues to happen. The breaking point for me was one too many pages of useless whining from some female dwarf that Tyrion meets; yes, another throwaway minor character that GRRM seems strangely fascinated by. Sadly, I don't share his fascination, and no longer care about this series, which has degenerated into a strange combination of travelogue, torture porn, and food criticism.
3 Stephen King once talked about a book getting away from the author - it happens when a character takes on a life of his own and the author starts feeling compelled to bring the whole family and all his friends and acquaintances into the plot. And then for each of the new characters, he weaves stories about their family and friends too.  So you end up with a book about Our Hero - and the lives of his mother, father, six sisters, two brothers, all of his brothers and sisters-in-law, everybody's school friends, employers, teachers, cousins, nieces and nephews and the butcher, the baker and the candle stick maker.  The reader gets lost in a morass of plots and sub plots, dozens of characters and sometimes totally unrelated story lines that lead nowhere. This is what happened in this book. The first three books of the Throne series were very good, but the cast started to really get out of control in book four. A Dance with Dragons feels like Martin realized this and has tried to tie up all the loose ends - but only ends up muddying the waters even more. People keep dying and then not being dead anymore.  Some of the cast from the first two or three books have totally disappeared and nobody has a clue what has happened to them and the time lines are so confusing that you start reading a chapter and say to yourself &#34;but I thought he was hiding in a cave - how come he is safe in a castle?&#34; only to find out a few pages later that the story has now gone back before the person had left the castle to find the cave.  The writing is fine.  The story line is a mess.
3 I will only say that I don't think that his geographic splitting of this book works. Neither does introducing Quentyn of Dorne. Not my favorite, but I am dedicated to seeing this through to the end.My least favorite part was the lack of political intrigue. Dany used to be on of my favorite characters, but she has begun to be portrayed as weak, in my opinion.I always love the Arya chapters. Same goes for Jamie's and Cersie's. But I do think that the Jamie chapters, except for the last page of his were not needed. I am glad he wont introduce any new point of view characters. I began to lose track.So now we must all wait 4-7 years for the next one.
2 I have never done this before this book, but I have skipped large numbers of pages looking for a story.  All I read are inane details, like George R.R. Martin just likes the sound of his own voice, or the appearance of his own writing I should say.  The fact that it has taken two separate books in order to address all of the characters over a fairly short period of time where almost nothing happens means that Martin needs a new editor at the least.  Someone needs to cut his books in half or more.  Someone needs to cut away the unnecessary description, because it isn't like his descriptions are poetic or great literature.  I give up.  I have tried and tried to get through the last three Martin books in this series, but I give up.  I am not going to waste any more time.
1 This book has about one-fifth the "story line" even of book 4, and instead fills the pages with excruciatingly detailed descriptions of the bloody flux, greyscale, bad weather and maggoty food.  NOT what one would expect from the author being touted as the "American Tolkein."It's utterly unsatisfying, to the point where I am dumping it and the other 4 books at the local library.If you feel compelled to read it, just to find out how bad it is for yourself, at least don't spend any money on it.  Go get it at the library.  You'll feel slightly less ripped off that way
4 More of the same awsome story, with even more complicated characters and incomplete cliff hangers and head scratching moments. But after all that....is it worth reading if its going to take 4 years from the time this book was written to the time book 6 comes out? AND another 4 to 5 years before book 7. Me personally will have to re-read before getting the next one as these stories are so complicated i will have forgotten most of the &#34;details&#34;. If you havent started the series i would say wait,if you have well then get your fix and wait like the rest of us hungry suffering dogs.
5 There are a lot of characters in this book and the last.  Sometimes i get a little confused but overall I've loved the series and I can't wait for the next book.
5 I can't put this book down. It's extremely captivating. Better than &#34;Clash of Titans&#34;. It's off to a slow start at first, but then gets much much better.
5 While the entire series has been great, the 4th book was a little disappointing.  No one cares about Sam, or ever will, so constantly talking about his depressing existence without at least breaking it up with some action was an unfortunate choice.  This book however takes advantage of the slightly boring development that occurred in book 4, and covers all the interesting characters that were effectively left out of the last book.  It occurs concurrently with book 4 and the tie-ins help character and story development immensely.
5 Wow, that's a pretty even spread of reviews, isn't it?  While the sales I'm sure are enough to make the publisher happy, it's clear from looking at reviews of the first three books compared to the last two that things have changed slightly.  Any negative reviews early on tended to focus on how graphically violent the series could be, nowadays readers are almost praying for violence just to make something happen.  Some folks are starting to throw around the Robert Jordan comparisons, which is a bit of a low shot, but it shows how the attitudes have shifted slightly.  Two books ago, this series could do no wrong.  Times have sure changed and some degree of disillusionment has been going on.  What the heck happened?People have come into this series with a great deal of high expectations, a lot of it fairly warranted.  By most accounts and while this is by no means a consensus, the first three books in the series are really, really awesome.  They were a fantastic mix of fantasy and sheer operatic grit, operating in a world where the rules weren't much different than here, even if the stakes were higher.  Wedded to a fascinating back story and given a huge cast of characters who were torn between scheming to get on top and sheer survival, you had a whole confluence of events that were clearly racing toward a conclusion that wasn't going to be pretty but was going to be worth the ride.  Then Martin had to split up the fourth novel into two parts (the second of which is this novel, as well as parts of the next one) even as the books themselves got longer and the gaps between them became longer as well.  What had been taking only two years in between books was now taking up to five, and while four years got us three books, it's taken a decade to get two more.  None of that should matter if the novels are good, though, right?  It's the ultimate quality that is the deciding factor, right?Unfortunately by lengthening the gestation process for each book he's only raising expectations higher.  We're wired that way, go figure.  While we still expect greatness because we're unfair and unforgiving that way, by putting five years in between each book it's almost implicitly promising that it's going to be mind-blowing and completely worth the wait.  And is that what we get here?  Not quite.  So, what's happened?  Or what is happening?As it says on the package, this book picks up on all the stuff that we didn't get to see in Book Four, notably what everyone's favorite dwarf Tyrion and future dragon-queen Daenerys are up to, as well as a host of other characters that were involved in that part of the planet.  Splitting the books up, while it probably made sense from a publishing perspective, has really only served to dull the momentum of the books.  While the early novels were masterpieces of intensity, here it feels like the pace has slackened somewhat and seems to be taking a more leisurely trot toward the bloody conclusion we all know is coming.  Tyrion is a case in point . . . he's constantly referring to events that happened at the end of the third book, which for him was a very recent event.  For the rest of us, it was close to a decade ago and feels off for some reason.  We've been apart from these people for too long and they seem to have changed somewhat in the interim.  Or maybe we have.  Everyone goes through their motions and furthers their plans but it all seems somehow more . . . static.This is the big problem with the book and seems to be a fairly common complaint.  It promises the awesome without actually bringing it.  He had his pick of fairly interesting plotlines to work from and further.  Maybe too many and that may be another reason that the novels feel somewhat blunted.  With so much to work with there's no way to keep all those balls dancing in the air without the pace suffering somewhat.  He's got a hard task in front of him . . . having set all these plots in motion and scattered them to the four winds he's got to bring them all back so that the players are all on stage for the conclusion, a task right now that probably feels like steering the Titanic.  Which may explain why a good portion of this book feels like it's treading water, marking time waiting for all the elements to interlock and come together.  Tyrion spends the entire book trying to get to Daenerys, without really succeeding.  In times past he would have met up with her before the book hit the halfway mark and livened up the scene with an alliance of scheming.  Here everyone is like blind people feeling their way around the same room.  Everyone is close, but nobody knows it and thus they never interact.  Daenerys, waiting for Tyrion, can't do much and so falls in love and kills time with courtly matters.  Then does something fairly important and vanishes for what feels like hundreds of pages.  Oops.The other chunk of the book is taken up by Jon Snow and his merry crew over at the Wall.  The Night Watch has been waiting for winter it seems since the book started and the rumored presence of the Others has been haunting the background of events almost since the beginning.  But again, it feels like we're stuck in a holding patterns, with the Others j-u-s-t about to attack and for a thousand pages never really making an appearance.  Again, maybe it needs to all happen at once, but until then he sort of dithers and comes to no firm decisions, making preparations for stuff that isn't going to happen yet.  He argues with the Watch, he deals with the Wildings, he argues with hardcore hopeful king Stannis and at the end of the book we're almost where we've begun.  Well, almost.  And this is the other part of the problem.We get a thousand pages of everyone moving in circles and then right toward the end the awesome starts to come back as events begin to speed up again.  Stannis makes a move that might go poorly, Jon Snow gets a move made, Daenerys puts herself in a different position and Tyrion could potentially make everyone's life miserable (which has been consistent at least) . . . and then the book ends.  We get all this setup, with very little of the consequences and Martins leaves us on the cusp of events being about to explode.  Which on some level is fine, if the next book contains all these explosions then people will probably proclaim as regaining that vibe that has been missing all this time.  And when the series is done and capable of being read as a piece people probably won't even notice how this book seems transitional.  But we need explosions here now because we're reading these novels as they come out and since we're in some way financing the next book or two (or improvements on his house, or his stamp collection, it hardly matters) we're at least owed some nod to the serial format.  Asking for a book that operates as a complete book on its own and also as part of a larger piece is not too much to ask for, especially when years go by between novels.Ultimately, none of this may matter.  This may indeed be a transitional piece, necessary because the huge amount of plots made splitting the last book necessary.  If he can follow through on what barely gets started here, wrap it up in two books (plausible, the elements for the finale are getting into place) and get them out at a reasonable pace (even if his and my definitions of "reasonable" probably differ), it will be seen as a slightly flawed masterpiece with a great beginning and end and a slightly bloated middle.  That's okay.  Getting all the characters back together in the same novel is a step in the right direction.  Everyone is too scattered here, and that intensity that informed the early books because everyone was constantly scheming and playing off each other is missing here.  We need interactions between the main host again.  We need them to start plotting directly to kill each other.  Everyone right now is inhabiting their own separate short story inside the novel and we need them to be part of one novel again, racing toward the conclusion.  It's possible, it really is.Martin's storytelling skills are intact, at no point did I want to fling this across the room.  It kept me reading for a thousand pages.  That's no mean feat.  Some sequences are close to fantastic, all the stuff with Reek, Arya's chapters, the brief glimpses of Jaime and Cersei.  Tyrion remains entertaining and once Daenerys becomes a mover and shaker (plus one new character who the jury is still out on) things could happen rapidly.  The potential is there.  I care about what's there and what's missing.  I want to know what happens with Bran, with Brielle, with Catelyn Tully and the Vale.  I love the flashbacks we get and how Aerys and Rheagar and all the people we never saw feel like real characters even though we've only heard about them through the voices of others, how it feels like myth real people witnessed.  I love how the history breaths and is constantly being made before us.  I know he's under a lot of pressure, even if he'd maybe never admit it (maybe he's not, he is a professional after all).  You can only hear the "modern Tolkien" comparisons for so long before you start to realize that people are expecting a masterpiece for the new century, when all you wanted to do was tell this nifty fantasy story.  But we read and we're here and for the most part, we're sticking around until the end.  So, just relax and tell the story and let it unfold.  It doesn't need to be perfect and huge and epic and all those things that high fantasy is supposed to be, just good.Ultimately this will only be seen as a blip.  You've got all the ingredients in front of you and two more books.  You've got this, George.
4 This book like it predecessor received widely mixed reviews. There isn't the kind of grand conclusions to story lines that take place in the previous books, which is disappointing to many readers. This book, like &#34;A Feast for Crows&#34; occurs during a brief lull in the action, and is generally setting things up for (we all hope) a following series of books where all hell will break loose.If you were disappointed by all of the B-List characters in the previous book (e.g. no Jon, Bran, etc.) then you will be pleased to see that their stories all continue in this book.I found the book enjoyable and it makes me very eager to see what happens next. Unfortunately, I am afraid that the next book won't be appearing for some time....
3 After a very long wait for Mr. Martin's next novel I found myself forgetting most of what had occurred in the past books. I needed a refresher on the Feast of crows. The HBO series refreshed me for the beginning of his series.The bottom line: I was very disappointed in Dance with Dragons. I felt like this book was simply a set up for his next novel. After hundreds of pages I found myself bored and longing for some of the action of his earlier works.Way too much detail:  I don't get the extensive details of characters that are not interesting and don't seem to be major players in the plot.  I had nothing to hang this information on and the archaic names made it even more burdensome to try.Masochism: The author seemed to dwell on certain characters getting above and beyond their share of abuse. After a book full of Reek being verbally, physically, emotionally...abused, I grew weary and disinterested. It seemed to me that the author could have conveyed this in fewer , much fewer pages. We get the picture.Dragon Queen: This is not the same Queen we knew in earlier works. She is stuck in nowhere's ville and out of touch with her dragons. In keeping with the title this book would have been a chance for the author to make the dragons center stage and really bring them to life. Instead we are disconnected from them as they are left to languish in their dark, basement cell.With more books to come I hope the author delivers. I am not willing to wait 5 years for the next book. I also expect some creative action and set all these characters in motion so that we get what we come to expect and deserve since we have stuck with Mr. Martin through two duds.
2 I absolutely hated the ending of this series.So many loose ends...too many "what, where who's"...enough of them to think that there will be a #6, but was bad enough to be greatful that there will not be.  I don't mind using my imagination to figure some of it out, but closure is missing.
5 The plot has finally pick up steam after it seemed to slow quite a bit in Feast for Crows. The book was definitely not what I expected it to be - yes, I still needed to refer back to the Game of Thrones iPhone reference app to look up characters, but the characters keep growing and becoming more complex to the point where maybe you can see where the story is heading. There are two great battles that are left open ended and thus I hope Winds of Winter comes sooner than later. For the Khalessi fans, she definitely becomes amazing in this book...just keep reading!
5 Again, I devoured this. I don't quite understand my attraction to this series because I find a lot of it annoying - for instance - I can't stand the long drawn out travel sequences with Tyrion, or with Bran and Jojen. And for other characters, Martin spares us the travelogue prose entirely. I think its feudal soap-operatic quality is what keeps me coming back for me. It's a guilty pleasure.
5 This book was outstanding.  It kills me that we have to wait for the next two books to come out still (so at George RR Martins pace, that'll be roughly 30 years).  Extremely well written (duh), awesome plot twists and turns (also duh) and the next couple books will be page turners I'm sure!
5 Amazing series of books!  Incredible story line, so many surprises and twists and turns.  Sorry to see it end...for now!  Can't wait for #6!
1 Sounds like Martin is developing a case of the Robert Jordan syndrome - writing a story that will never end, like one of the soap operas on afternoon tvps how do i rate ZERO stars??
5 A Dance with Dragons is George R. R. Martin's fifth volume in his A Song of Ice and Fire series.It has been several years since Martin published the last volume: A Feast for Crows.  For me, the time between books made the beginning of this book a little difficult.  Martin's style of writing, jumping from character to character, made it hard to keep track of the characters.  It was easier to remember the major characters: Tyrion, Jon, Bran, and Daenerys.  But keeping track of the many minor character was difficult.  And Martin uses a large cast of characters.In the first four books, Martin titled each chapter with the name of the main character of that chapter.  In this installment, Martin titled some chapters with phrases descriptive of the chapter's main character.  This literary device challenges the reader to discern who Martin is writing about.  Yet, it can be somewhat confusing when the reader is dealing with a large group of characters.In his introduction, A Cavil on Chronology, Martin explains that the first part of this book parallels A Feast for Crows.  Then, halfway through the book, the timelines come together and we read about some long forgotten main characters such as Cersei and Jaime.So, what are the main characters up to?  Jon Snow is learning how to be the leader of the Night Watch at the wall.  His half-brother, Bran Stark, is north of the wall being called by some mysterious force.  Arya Stark is in Braavos, across the narrow sea serving as a novice in a temple.  Tyrion Lannister is across the narrow sea trying to get to Daenerys Targaryen.  Daenerys is learning the difference between a conquering queen and a ruling queen.  She has not yet learned how to use and control her dragons.  Cersei Lannister is in prison, accused of treason and fornication.  And Jaime Lannister is riding around Westeros settling disputes between local lords.There are many others: Reek, Lady Melisandre, Quentyn Martel, and Asha Greyjoy, to name a few.  And don't forget all the dead white walkers north of the wall.I enjoyed this book.  Once I got a handle on the characters the book was a joy to read. However, I still have absolutely no idea who will be left alive at the end.Spoiler alert: Martin has absolutely no problem killing off a character.  Be prepared.
5 the author has me hookedto heck with the HBO seriesmore  pleasedragon dragon everywhereswords and knights betraylals andredemption
1 I wouldn't recommend these books to anyone!  They are laborious to read, complex and frustrating !  The characters are interesting but the writer never fully completes their stories. I am left frustrated with a feeling of incompletion. I wish I had never started them.
5 Great book.  Never seems to get boring and leaves you at a very dramatic and cliffhanger ending for almost all the characters.  Anyone who has read previous books in the series will realize that his writing is dynamic and plot twists are some of the most dramatic in the history of the genre.
3 There was not enough action in this latest Game of Thrones installment.  Very long and long winded book.  It seems as though it is time to tie the lose ends and finish this tale.
5 This series just gets better and better!I loved the new character POVs in this book.Martin is a master of creating a world that is not only fun to read, but has incredible depth-- both in its characters and the physical world itself.I love that I have no idea how this series will end, but I am certainly coming along for the ride!
3 Here's a radical suggestion: what if GRRM revived the serial tradition?  A monthly deadline would be a boon to us all; his doorstoppers are now both late AND disappointing.That rising howl you hear is the fan reaction to what may be charitably called "cliffhangers," though perhaps "graceless plot interruptions" would be more apt.  Martin does the equivalent of chopping off A GAME OF THRONES right when Dany walks into the pyre instead of closing grandly on the morning after.  I'd recommend waiting 2 years for a library copy or waiting 10.5 years until the next installment.  In terms of long-term damage, the cliffhangers will force the next book to pick up the story just minutes after this one abruptly broke off.  Martin used to say that he wanted a 5-year gap so that the kids could grow older, but I don't see a clear path forward.In DANCE, we get plentiful descriptions of history, geography, and nipples (both color and size, quite reliably), but where's the actual story?  As a disappointingly apt analogy, FEAST:Brienne :: DANCE:Jon/Dany/Tyrion.--- SPOILER-FREE ---Jon's interrupted arc => very CEO-like (reminiscent of Tyrion as Hand) with an illuminating POV chapter from Melisandre.Dany's bloated arc => a mess of fail on so many levels.  You only need to read her first and last chapters; the middle will only make you angry, confused, and inexplicably sleepy.Tyrion's meandering line => an unfinished fistful of novella that must have been lying around GRRM's desk.Theon's actual arc => the unexpected star of the show.Other people => a bare whisper of where Rickon is hiding, 11 lines on Brienne, 3 sad but beautiful Bran chapters, interesting looks at Jaime and Cersei, some unresolved Iron Islanders, and assorted useless Dornishmen (whose house words should be "The sun always fails").
1 Wow- where to start?  Well , at least I did start to read this book.The problem was it kept putting me to sleep.I did enjoy Martin's first three books but its been a fast train wreck getting through book 4 and now 5.The author is suffering from attention span deficit. And rambles on and on about the stupidest crap. Considering his deterioration and age this series will never be finished/rectified. I won't be indulging in his works any longer.
4 The book is well written and full of action as befits the 5th book in this series.  I get really ticked at not being able to get through the whole thing and having to wait for the next book to be published.  Reading the book after seing the series helps you visualize the characters.  I notice the differences and cannot say one is better than the other over all but I tend to favor the books.  I am not really happy with the Saturday morning serial cliff hanger ending in this volume. I would be buying the next volume in the series anyway. Cherryh's Foreigner series does a much better at making each volume also stand by itself, that is the one big failing of this series.
3 I have similar comments as many others, it is still interesting reading but starting to get boring.  How many times can Tyrion cheat death?  What is with Bran?  This will probably be my last purchase of the series unless the next book is a conclusion.It reminds me very much of the Dune series from several years ago in that it just started to be so dragged out that it was not enjoyable any more.  Martin seems to enjoy writing certain things over and over.
3 GRRM is going down the same road as Robert Jordan did with the Wheel of Time series.  He started off strong, with excellent pacing, compelling characters, and a clear idea of where he wanted to go.But then...something happened.  Either he lost the thread, or he decided that he was making too much money and that he needed to drag things out, or a little of both.  Because whereas the first three books were some of the finest modern fiction ever written, these last two...aren't.Next to nothing substantial happens. There is precisely one "major" development towards the end.  There are rumors of other, interesting things happening "off camera", but GRRM used up too much space describing food to relate those.There'd be plenty of cliffhangers too, if I still actually cared enough about the story to fret about them, and if I didn't realize it'll be at least another 5 years before there's any resolution.Taken on it's own merits, it's not a bad book.  Not great, but not terrible either.  But taken as part of the series that started with AGoT, ACoK, and ASoS, it's simply proof that GRRM fell with AFfC, and hasn't gotten back up again.And now he's talking about how he might need 8 books instead of 7 to finish it?  At the current rate, he'll need 10 or 12.  At the current glacial pacing, it'll take at least 2 and probably 3 more books before the dragons come west, and another 4 or 5 before the Others actually attack.
5 This is a great book....  If you started watching the HBO series, you really need to read the books... they are great.
4 I waited for the promised trade paperback edition but after postponement upon postponement, I went for the hard cover edition.Given the long lapses between books, I find that I must begin the series anew with each new release.  That usually works to refresh the plots and allows me to sink into the world of Fire & Ice, picking up the threads as they appear ( or don't).Given the concept that this volume contains all the rest of the saga that was left out of "A Feast for Crows", it is hampered by the format.  With the first three volumes, you got the feeling that you were staying current with all of the plots.  Given the way that the story has expanded, this could not happen with the "MegaSaga" that would have resulted in trying to combine "A Feast for Crows" and "A Dance with Dragons".  I would have preferred Mr. Martin to shorten the timeline in order to maintain the continuity.  The plotline is just too complex and even though I had re-read the previous 4 volumes directly before tackling this one, it was a struggle.  Perhaps the "Winds of Winter" will contract a bit as various threads are resolved.
5 Great read; got better the further I read. Can't wait to begin the next one. Bound to be good, too!
1 Having read all the others, bought this to complete the collection. It's so dragging, I read maybe a page a day then put it down. Maybe I will finish it before the next one comes out, and hope that is better. Every penny (cent) of this purchase is wasted. Should have taken it from the library instead
3 This book ending made me angry.  Frankly, reading this Martin's series has given more frustration than pleasure.  I read 5-6 novels a week but I put his down and move to a different author all together knowing I'm going to be disappointed or frustrated. Happily the HBO series is better than the books, go figure.  I will say Martin's writing is very engaging, his attention to detail does teleport me there as an observer but his books continuations and/or endings leave me cold, wondering why I bothered.M. Archer
5 The entire 'Game of Thrones' series had been amazing! The fifth one is just as good as the first. Could not put the book down
4 Oh my gosh... I can't believe I actually finished all five of these freaking books. Like usual, I don't feel like I can really review A DANCE WITH DRAGONS. So much that happens (pretty much everything) would be a spoiler for somebody who hasn't read the series yet, or is only on the first book.As for the parts that I can review, I actually had a lot of trouble with this book. I was so aggravated by the first 60% of this book. It took me weeks to get through because it was so slow and just dragged on and on and on. I had to force myself to keep reading! And I never felt like that with any of the other books, except maybe through some little parts in A CLASH OF KINGS.But after I got through the first 60% of the book, the rest just flew by. It got super interesting and I could barely put it down. There was even one part towards the end of the book that made me almost come to tears.I'm very excited to see where George is going to go next with these story lines. There are so many awesome possibilities running through my head. Now that I finally have the series (the ones that are currently out, at least) finished, I can't wait to go back and re-read the books from the beginning. There are so many things that I know that I missed or didn't pick up on the first time around.
5 George RR Martin continues to amaze me.  Several key players had their parts left up in the air.  What's going to happen next?  I can't wait for the next book.  Write faster, George!  Write faster.
1 **Spoiler Alert**It is one thing to intermittently kill off a protagonist to keep the narrative, and by extension the reader, honest; It is quite another to systematically kill off every sympathetic character in the series to the point the reader honestly no longer cares what happens. The latter is where I find myself at this point, there is exactly one character left that I am invested in, and it is a peripheral character. Every other character I have become invested in over the years is dead. I suppose I could contrive empathy for another character, but why bother? It has already exceeded "fool me twice shame on me" and I'm done giving Martin the benefit of the doubt.There is simply no suitable conclusion to Jon's story at this point. Either he really is dead and his entire arc was a superfluous waste of time, or he is revived by some miracle resurrection which by now has become a cliche of the series. Furthermore, the nascent ubiquity of such miracle resurrections has destroyed the atmosphere of the series by embracing the very fantasy tropes Martin once openly flouted.There was a time when a pivotal character dying added to the suspense of the series by letting you know no character was safe. By this point, however, the same trick has been pulled so many times as to make the reader numb to any empathy for any character. Thus does the series become an exercise in nihilism without relevance, context, or discourse.
2 Probably the worst book of this series I read them all and the story line was pretty consistent but this book rambles on and spends chapter after chapter on developing characters that do not intertwine with the first 4 books at all...Have to say I had to convince myself to continue,hoping that the story line would improve!I would not suggest this as a book to read at all.Sorry George but this just is not a good quality book to  read at all,sorry I spent the money to purchase this one.
5 I fear Game of Thrones is going to end up like the aptly named "Wheel of Time" series - the book is a zillion pages long and Winter is STILL coming (when will it arrive?);  Dany still can't master the dragons; Bran still can't walk; Arya is still in Braavos; Tyrion is still my favorite character (please don't fall in love with Penny, that would be so un-Tyrion-like)...Cersei is still a shrew and Jamie just went missing (???)...The book follows along (in more detail from other POV characters) what was going on in Feast for Crows,  so while the story is interesting and well written, the plot advanced very little.  I was hoping to there would be a little "sum'in sum'in" going on with Jon and Dany by now, but by the time they finally meet, all of the Lanisters will have died from old age, the realm will be a democracy.Don't get me wrong, I LOVE GRRM and the series; I just don't want to have to wait another 6 years for the next installment.  I fear that the HBO series will be complete before the novels and that would just be irritating.For fans of the books I don't have to even say this is a "must read" - - for the newly initiated, if you just started with book 1, I recommend you read slowly and perhaps by the time you get to Dance With Dragons the last book will be out.Sorry, GRRM I'm not hating, I'm just anxious :-)
5 I can't understand the low rating for this book. I was just as upset as anyone else that it took so long for this book to come out. Maybe the reviewers were taking out their frustrations for the wait by criticizing this book. Anyway on to my review. I think this is a great series and this book was right up there with the other books in the series. If you have enjoyed the series so far, you will love this book. I decided not to reread the previous books. I was able to follow the storyline and remember the characters just fine. George RR Martin's writing is superb. He gives you just the right amount of description without boring you with too much detail. Also he continues to advance the story in this book. This series is on par with the first three books of"the wheel of time" series in my opinion. I couldn't put this book down.  Now I'm going to read the other reviews to try to see why others graded it so low.
3 A Dance With Dragons is, for me, the least enjoyable Song of Ice and Fire entry to date. Most of the book is dedicated to moving characters around and for set-up. The final third of the book is considerably better than the preceding two thirds, and is probably the saving grace for the book as a whole. There's some more expansion in scope, as well as some smaller developments on the expansions in the previous volume, A Feast for Crows.Once again, as with Feast for Crows, Martin relies on his world and characters. Unlike Feast, however, where Cersei provided a counterbalance with plot development, there's much less plot going on, making the narrative far more reliant on world and characters. Some of it is interesting, but mostly all the characters drifting around left me bored.There's some political intrigue, but it mostly lies beneath the surface, only to rear its head in the latter half of the book. There isn't a whole lot of focus on these threats, nor is much indicated about them, so there's a distinct lack of tension from that.Of all the characters, Jon Snow was my favourite, purely because i'm more interested in him as a character. Tyrion had some interesting character development, and his sarcasm and cynicism is always a breath of fresh air, but significant portions of his story are focused on the things around him. Daenerys was the least interesting of the three main perspectives. Of the others, only Theon, Davos and Barristan Selmy noticably stood out, and they're only here for as long as is absolutely necessary. Arya continues to be a joy. We get a bit of time with Bran, mostly to see where he goes.The rest of the viewpoints are minor characters, meant only to shed light on other areas of the world and developing plot arcs. We return to a few characters from the previous book, briefly, so the plotlines from Dance and Feast begin to sync, but these cover very little ground.There are two overriding issues which put a negative tint on this book. The first is the number of cliffhangers, the second the way seemingly finished character/story arcs are unashamedly manipulated.The first point: nearly every plot arc of this book, divided either by setting or character, ends with a cliffhanger. Given my feelings about the first two thirds of the book, and how the final third shone by comparison, it's frustrating to have everything build up and lead into... nothing. While the next volume, Winds of Winter, looks to be positively packed with plot action, everything that happened in this book builds up to a climactic point which just ends with a "to be continued" notice.The second point: by this time in the series, Martin is abusing the unreliable narrator. If a character dies, it's no given that they're staying dead, or that they even died at all. Cutting off the narrative at a point where everything seems lost, or showing something happening then having a conspicuous absence of the character involved, can be effective if used occasionally. It's not, though, it's used several times, and as a result the events themselves lose their impact because, instead of having it sink in and being surprised later, i'm left wondering whether it's really done, or how things turned back from the brink. It dulls the impact. I understand that Martin is telling these chapters from a strictly subjective viewpoint, but that doesn't preclude an indication of finality.I'm hoping for a short wait for the next book, and some serious delivery on setup. If not, the series might begin to crumble under its own weight.3/5
2 The novels in this series have always been rather slow.  I still remember plodding through The Game of Thrones wondering if it would ever get going.  Luckily, after I got through the first 100 or so pages, it did get moving and soon I was completely engrossed.  That same formula seemed to work for the other novels as well.  Some setup but eventually the story moved well.Unfortunately, not this book.  It was all setup and it had no climax!  Nothing. Sure he through in a few quick surprises at the end to try to justify the reader's time but after waiting 5 years and reading 959 pages all I can say is "that's it?".  I thought at least we would have had a big battle for Winterfell at the end.  Nope.George R.R. Martin has clearly become addicted to character POV's so much so that I dont think any of the main characters had more than maybe 150 pages focused on them.  Given that each had their own subplot none of them was able to get any sort of momentum for their stories.Now don't get me wrong, I still enjoyed aspects of the book.  I like quite a few of the characters and even Dany, who I loathed early on, has become more interesting for me.  But I have to say, another book like this and I won't be reading any more in this series until it is officially over.
2 This was a real disappointment. Although I enjoyed the 1st couple of books, it was a real effort for me to get through this one. This book series has gone from a well-written tale with suspense in almost every chapter to a long-winded soap opera where each installment contains less real substance.In this book, the same 3 storylines persist: Impending threat from beyond the Wall; warring for control of the Seven Kingdoms; Daenerys and her dragons in the east (Will she EVER come to Westeros?) Instead of bringing the story to a climax/denouement, Martin continues to drag it out. There is too much repetition and seemingly unnecessary characters or chapters. Some examples include the chapters about Quentyn Martell or Victarion Greyjoy. What real value do they have to the main story? This same question can be asked about the chapter with Daenerys walking alone in the Dothraki sea of grass. Most of this chapter is a review of events covered in earlier books (since who could remember it all after 5000 pages). The only really interesting point in this chapter was who she meets - described in the last paragraph. Why didn't the author just scrap the rest and start with that scene?? Redundancies were also noted in the 1st half of the book which was filled with descriptions of burned out villages, razed castles and mutilated bodies - very dark and disturbing. How many times does the author want to describe carnage?A good story has to deliver its climax/point; otherwise the audience loses interest. Maybe some criticism should go to the editor, who should have encouraged the author to delete such repetitions and extraneous pages.  Why keep 1000 verbose pages, if the story could have been better told in half that space?One oddity was that 3/4 of the way through, Martin scraps using character names for the titles and instead tries things like "The Queen's Hand" or "The Discarded Knight". Using the character names tied the book together. This arbitrary change seems to suggest that Martin has indeed lost his focus in this series...much as Dany loses her purpose in Meereen. Tyrion's escapades and wit were the book's one saving grace.Reviews have described Martin as the next Tolkien. I initially agreed with that. Now, after over 5000 pages and no end to the story in sight, that comparison no longer holds true. Tolkien gave his story closure (which is what made that series phenomenal) ...we're still waiting on Martin (and getting bored).As suggested by another reviewer, one wonders if rather than creating a good tale, he is now writing for future royalties or TV series??
5 As always, George does not disappoint. These are my favorite books and I absolutely love to read them over and over again. My only complaint is how long it takes for the next book to come out. Other than that, I own these books both in hard copy and digital format. Very entertaining!!!
1 I have read many reviews that agree with my feelings of what is wrong with this book and state them very well.  I will not go into too much detail, but the flaws are lack of editing, lack of story progression, too many cliffhangers, and too many characters. Every character almost seems to be traveling slowly somewhere but they never arrive.The book had some good stuff hidden in the dreck. Particularly the Theon/Reek stuff was not bad.  I almost gave it two stars but really feel the book along with book 4 really drags a good series down. Also, the violence level was amped way up (in a series already known for its violence) and it felt gratuitous rather than adding to the story. Overall it felt like the events in this book could have been summed up in one prologue chapter at the start of the next novel and would have been more satisfying of a read.  Hope the next book is better. Will probably read it since I like the show and have read this far., but won't rush to get it.
5 I could not stop reading - constant action, gory but insightful to human nature in such a different world.  Great Fantasy, super and easy reading.
5 This book is more fast pace than the last and includes the more exciting characters in the series.If you enjoy the series, then you should purchase this one.
5 What can I say. I'm 1 of the millions waiting [im]patiently for the continuation of this story. The tv show is wonderful too.
5 And now the waiting begins... So many lives that could be extinguished -but are they truly dead? I will have to wait, and wait...hopefully not as long as before as I truly cannot wait years for the next book. Perhaps we need to lock Ser Martin in a tower with his writings to hurry him along? So many characters are coming together to bring this all to the final stages although he could easily keep this going for many more books. Let winter finally come! I am waiting.....
4 I started reading the books after watching the HBO series.  Somehow I seem to like the TV dramatization more than the books, since my only complaint is the author has too many wheels spinning and takes too get somewhere.  That said, I do enjoy the story and it keeps me guessing who he is going to kill off after you have invested the time following them.  Hopefully at the end of it all I won't go &#34;That's it!&#34;
5 Got the first four books in the box set as a gift after saying I was interested in it. Read through those and it was finally time to pick up the latest. I have really been enjoying the series as a whole, and this book keeps the interest going. There are very few times where I feel like I don't care about the characters or what's going on. Clearly Jon and Tyrion carry the bulk of my interest, but every character presented makes me interested in what's going on both in the world in general and with the characters specifically.With this book, the structure was slightly different as it picks up with characters that book 4 didn't touch on at all until the timelines finally sync between this book and the end of book 4. The end of the book really blew me away, and was not something I was really expecting.Needless to say, I can't wait at all until book 6 comes out. At least there's the HBO series to hold me over until that book finally comes out. And there's more things that Martin is writing outside of the main series that covers the history of the world that I'm looking forward to getting my hands on and reading as well.
5 I put out off reading this for as long as I could, hoping book 6 was coming out.I enjoy Mr. Martin's writing style a lot and like all the books in the series so far.My only complaint about the series is how long it takes between the books.
5 This was a gift for my husband.  He found it very, ver good but you must read the 4 books that came in series before.
4 a much better storyline and character development than book four. I am wondering who is left to kill. waiting for book six..
4 Well I gave this four stars because I love the series.  I had bought the other books for my father, who was 86 and didn't have HBO at his house so he didn't even know about the story.  He came to live with me while he was sick with colon cancer and he had decided against any treatment.  I had HBO Go on my IPad so I caught him up on the previous seasons he had missed.  The series was on hiatus at the time.  He loved it as I knew he would because he loved Sci Fi.  My father was an avid reader and his only complaint about the books wasn't really a negative; he said &#34;boy there are very strange names, so many families that it is hard to keep track of.&#34;  Knowing my father though it didn't take him long to sort it all out so when he would talk about the book he spoke of the characters by name.  His health deteriorated quickly but  he decided to buy this book any way.  I didn't know, and I'm sure he wasn't aware that he was ordering a hardcover book and that it would be so heavy.  Needless to say he couldn't hold the book up to read and as he was slipping away more each day I would try to read it to him but he was in and out of consciousness.  He said to me one day, &#34;I know I won't be able to finish this book&#34; and he was right he passed away shortly after.
4 Like Feast, people knock this book for being slow. And like Feast, it deals with the aftermath of a bloody book three. Someone has to put the pieces back together. This deals with how the characters put the pieces back together and whether they fail or succeed. Towards the end, the tension of the first three creeps back into the story and leaves you waiting for Book Six.
5 It's 2:30am and I just finished &#34;A Dance with Dragons&#34;.  The book has more twists and turns to keep me immersed in the story.
4 I find myself compelled to finish this series for resolution (despite being disappointed time and again as the 'good guys' keep losing), although I also have to take breaks between books, as I sometimes feel as if I'm  slogging my way through a bog of violent images, intentionally disturbing sexual scenes, and repetitive description.  Book IV read too much like something that was intended to be turned into an HBO seires; at least this one reads more like a novel again.
3 There was too much fluff and &#34;my lord&#34; and not enough action. Where are Sanza and little finger? I didn't like the overplay of the Wall and Jon Snow.
5 I have loved all of this series of books, mostly because they are so very well written.  It seems that many authors either do not proof read their books, or they don't care about mistakes in the printing, but finding a mistake in one of George R.R. Martin's books is rare indeed.  I hope he keeps writing, as I have a new favorite author.
4 I didn't love it the first time I read it through, but I liked it more when I read it again. I can't wait for the next book!
3 Oh!  I've had the ups and downs with this series.  The first book, while interesting, drew me in enough that I had to continue but did not excite  me wholly.  That was the job of the second book, and the third.  But now, with the fourth and fifth books, I find myself underwhelmed by the series and where it is going.  I should caution, if you haven't read the first book (and all the others after it) this review is not going to be helpful to you at the least.  It is best to start at the beginning.There are many many plots and stories in this series.  So much that it is hard to describe them with the detail that they deserve.  But there are some large ones.  Like the plight of Daenerys Targaryen and her dragons, who only wants to reclaim the kingdom for herself.  Tyrion Lannister, who has been outlawed and must use his cleverness for not only saving his skin but furthering his agendas.  King Stannis, also trying for a throne that he thinks is rightfully his, and the burning god that he claims to follow.  And several others, which, like in all the books, only want to play the game of thrones and win.Don't get attached to the characters.  That is the most important lesson that Martin gives us.  You never know just  how long they'll be with us and it does no good to retain a favorite, although sometimes it can't be helped.  I find the dwarf, Tyrion Lannister, most intriguing and I know that I'm not alone in that sentiment.  He is so complex and (I believe) a good character that I find myself rooting for him quite often, even when he does something that I don't agree with.  Arya Stark is a character that I didn't like in the beginning, but her role in the books has become so intriguing that I look forward to her stories and what she goes through.  For a little girl, she is quite brave and devious.  And my undisputed favorite would be Daenerys.  She acts the true queen but still has enough innocence that she is quite likable.  And she's the character I identify with most (although I am very much aware that I don't possess dragons nor am I a queen).  She is just that inspiring for a book character.As said before the plot is very twisted and there are many many characters.  As such, it can get very hard to follow and there are some chapters that I find myself drifting away from the book and not really caring about the characters featured.  Not to mention that while this book had most of my favorite character's stories, it didn't have them all.  It also went back in the timeline to the previous book and that was a tad confusing as well.  I prefer it when things happen in a continuous timeline rather than bouncing back and forth.  While there are some interesting aspects to this book, most of it is a lot of talking and planning and quite frankly, boring.  I like intrigue well enough, but when that's all there is it sometimes makes you wish the book would just hurry up and get somewhere.I still like the series even if I think it's gotten weaker in the past two books.  There's so much detail here that rereading the series over and over I'm sure there would be something new found every time.  I look forward to when the next book comes out.A Dance with DragonsCopyright 20111016 pagesReview by M. Reynard 2012
5 So let us get some stuff out of the way. The first three are amazing. The fourth was lacking a little bit. Now that is out of the way lets talk about A Dance with Dragons.There is so much being thrown at this book series. I believe we should examine a few of them. The first I would like to address is I don't care how long it takes in between books. I think people would be a lot more kind to this novel if it had come out a year later instead of six that it took. I would say that anybody that this bugs has a valid point, but for me it just doesn't matter. I wait patiently for these type of things. So while I think they have a point it didn't ruin any part of this book for me.Another thing is "that nothing happens and that it is just a placeholder for this series". Again I could see it. Books four and five are the middle in this long series. Martin can't rely on it being new nor can he rely on its ending to maintain the narrative edge. So having said that I expected that these two would be like this. In a trilogy it is always the middle that suffers. When going into a massive series like this you need to give a little to get a lot. A trilogy is nice and clean having a beginning, middle, and end. A series of this size can't be like that. When entering into a saga of this size there is always going to be a little place holding. Some have commented on that certain characters take a step back in their development. This is also true. What the endgame is with this form of storytelling is that when the series is done that the impact will be greater on the reader than if told in a clean three act structure. This means that books six and seven (could) should be better for the very fact of the place holding that four and five have done. This will lead to the argument "that this is all well and good but I just didn't enjoy this part of the story". To those people I would say that you are right in your opinion. It's just that I have a big picture view while reading these books. Meaning that I enjoyed the heck out of this book.The argument has been made "that it has to many new characters". I see them as frustrating as well but I keep in mind that characters grow more interesting the more you read of them. Perfect example would be of Davos. I was not that into him in book two. When I got to book three I loved him. This is Martin populating his Universe before he starts to break it apart. One good note that some might find interesting (as I did) is that Martin said that books six and seven will not contain any new POV characters excluding the Prologue and Epilogue. So if nothing else you won't have that problem going forward.One note of interest is that the critical reviews for this one have been very good while reviews on amazon have been less than kind. I thought when the critics reviews came out that everyone was going to be happy again. That didn't happen. It is for this reason I decided to write my review from this kind of perspective.I hope this review shows that I loved this book but understand where you guys are coming from. I think anybody that gave this book a one star review was right. That is what they believed. They can not be wrong it is their review. I myself enjoyed my time Westros. I love epic literature like this. I will be looking forward to the sixth book as I hope you are too.
1 I don't mind books that are slow moving, but my patience is being tested with this series.While ADWD at least fixes one of the major problems with AFfC since it does include the POVs of popular characters like Jon, Bran and Dany, each character faces more and more challenges and failures.  But it doesn't seem to be leading to anything. It's just going on and on with new secondary plots being introduced, but the overall plot of the series is no closer to any resolution.Like a AFfC, there are still too many random characters with POV chapters that add nothing to the overall story other than filler.  I found myself skimming over some chapters because they simply weren't compelling and I had no interest in what was going on.At the end of ADWD, I was left with a lack of hope for both the characters and the storyline.  It's now a series of disjointed storylines with the empty promise of a satisfying conclusion.With only two books left, I have my doubts about how the series will wrap up. But I'm fully expecting GRRM to announce that ASoIaF will be a 10 book series now.
4 Again, it would have been so much better if they had published books 4 and 5 together. I would have read a 2000 page book. Breaking up the character like this really sucks. Story is still amazing, though. Don't know what I'm going to read now that I have to wait for book 6!
5 If you are looking at Book 5 you will know how George RR Martin can enthral the reader as he takes us on this wondrous journey through a world which appears in great chaos, providing drama and mayhem aplenty.
2 Having read the first four books - and finding the fourth lacking - I nevertheless decided to read A Dance With  Dragons.  It's pretty clear that Martin has become bored and hasn't figured out how to bring all of the story lines to a fitting conclusion. So, he content to keep writing about this knight or that knight.  Interesting characters are less so now and new, boring ones are created. I encourage everyone to read the first three books in the series, yes! But know that if you keep reading beyond three, you'll be disappointed.
4 great book for the series, but Martin is taking way too long in-between entries the his series, i'm starting to be afraid he won't be able to finish them.
2 This book is about people talking. And thinking. And making plans. Lots of plans. Plans made, plans abandoned, plans changed. But no plans acted upon, oh no. We wouldn't want that. That would kill the immersion. Immersion in cement, quickly hardening, thickening much as the plot has, never to move again.Immersion happens within a story, around events and characters and locations you care about. Immersion in minor details unrelated to the plot, in the histories of towns which you have never heard about and will never visit again - what good is that? If you were on a (paid) tour of historic landmarks in London and the guide began speaking of the history of New Zealand, because, you know, Australia was a colony of Britain and New Zealand is right next door, would you feel like you got your money's worth? Of course not.George bombards us with copious descriptions of food and ruins, serving no purpose beyond his transparent desire to showcase the detailed history of his world. Dragons came, things done got burned, now they're ruins. We got it the first ten times. We especially got it after Tyrion took a mind-numbingly boring carriage ride to nowhere. You know, the one where he woke up, ate several paragraphs of food, took - or witnessed - pisses, looked out the window and described a ruin, ate more paragraphs, then slept and repeated it. And repeated it again. And again. And again. And suddenly the chapter was over, and you were left wondering how any editor worthy of the title had left that in the book. If you were like me, you wondered that several times while reading this book.Dany, as a character, is unrecognizable. Gone is the fierce Dany of old, replaced by a painfully clueless teen girl with a mindless crush. A girl who worries more about what she's wearing and who is staring at her than any events occurring around her. Twilight's Bella would look down on ADWD's Dany."Are they looking at my breast? They should totally be looking at my breast. I want them to look at my breast. Ooh, a penis. I'm turned on. Can they see that I'm turned on? They should totally see that I'm turned on." SHUT. UP.  I half expected Dany to whip out her phone and text,"like omg, dis guy iz SOOO totes hawt! LoL >;P*~*~*DrAgOnQuEeN Dany*~*~* "This book could have had interesting moments, but they were all killed with chapter after chapter after chapter of setup and minor plot details hashed out in painful detail. So when the big reveals finally come, they're things you knew about hundreds of pages ago, making you wonder why the revelation was left hanging at the end of a chapter, as if it were a big deal. Showing the same revelation from multiple points of view isn't interesting, it's unnecessary. Show it from the point of view which would have the most impact and at the time when it would be most startling, then get on with the freaking story.Not even the cliffhangers are really even all that interesting, because they're just more setup. More setup instead of something actually happening.If AGOT had gone at this pace, the book would have ended with Ned and Robert arriving back at King's Landing after having described every meal and farmhouse to be eaten or seen, respectively, along the Kingsroad, and with readers left wondering why it was called "A Game of Thrones" and not "A Ride in Carriages." Just as readers of this book will be left wondering why it's called "A Dance with Dragons." Because fewer dragons make an appearance than do turtles. You can call it "A Swim with Turtles," if you'd like. It's a far more apt description of the book and its pacing.These last two books should simply never have been written. There is not enough story here for one book, let alone two or three. And I don't understand George's sudden distaste for flashbacks. Some of the signature events of the series have been told entirely through flashbacks, stories, recollections, and so on.Robert and Ned's uprising. The Starks being murdered by the mad king. Jaime's murder of Aerys, and Ned finding him seated on the Iron Throne. The murder of Elia and her children. Lyanna and Rhaegar, from the tourney to the Tower of Joy, with mysteries as diverse as frog men and blue flowers. Tyrion's wedding. Heck, even recent events like Rob's victory in the west and his marriage. All major events do not require books/chapters devoted to them.Considering that those events were told so well through flashbacks, does anyone besides George honestly believe that the carriage rides and all-around NOTHING that has happened in AFFC and ADWD were so much story that they had to have entire books devoted to them? Honestly?After AFFC and the long wait, I promised that I would only borrow ADWD, not buy it. I made good on that promise, as the lack of "Amazon Verified Purchase" on this review will attest. With George utterly unrepentant in regards to the pacing, style, and long waits for these past two books, I am now promising the same for Winds of Winter. And I'm not alone.This series may still be redeemable, but I doubt that I will ever find it in my heart to forgive GRRM for making me DREAD Dany and Tyrion chapters. Dread, it rhymes with bread, served with bacon grease and garlic and... oops, I've found myself randomly writing about food every few paragraphs since finishing this book. I've also taken to letting food dribble down my chin, since ADWD showed me that it is impossible for grown men or women to eat without slobbering all over themselves. It is known.
3 For the life of me I can not understand why E-Books aka Kindle copies are so expensive. It costs very little to produce and now that ebooks have become popular, the price only seems to go higher & higher.As far as the Book goes I found it at a second hand bookstore for $7.00. The story is so so and I agree with other comments that It's turning is very slow, unlike other earlier books.
2 What bothers me about this book is the obvious editing flaws, like using the word widdle for little twice in 20 pages by two separate characters it has more impact if you choose it once for one character making fun of someones widdle toes or widdle fingers but not twice. I noticed it in the last book too with the word dun everything was described as dun, which is a color so it was their dun breeches or dun mules or dun this dun that, come on pick up a bloody thesaurus.  However I don't blame Martin who obvi has a lot of character development on his plate, I blame his editors. Unfortunately that is not my only problem...it seems like Martin could have really made an outstanding book here but chose a more circuitous route which made me feel disappointed.  I know he likes to slowly develop characters and one of the characters I hated in the previous books but started to really sympathize with was Reek/ Theron.  So kudos to him for that. However the dragons, how are a bunch of unruly monsters ever going to be able to stage a comeback for Dany in Westeros.  A little time spend in training them throughout this book would have given me some hope that they would be able to assist her in winning back Westeros sans Victarion. Or at least giving Dany the inkling that there was another Targaryen afoot would have been interesting.Also why do they always quote the "Rains of Castemere" did I miss some exciting ancient plot twist related to that song?  Help me out if you know the answer to that one.  But I digress, I got into these books after HBO and plowed through the first three which were absolutely amazing, these last two have been a how can I say it...a real bummer. The books are clogged with characters that in and of itself is sometimes hard to follow for me I wish there was a little more development of the lesser characters to make them more salient in my mind if you are going to bring them up every 200 or so pages make them stick please! So many coats of arms so many banners all of them confusing, I kept getting Roose and Ramsey confused.  And the people across the narrow sea were melting into one save a couple characters.  All in all I think I will like the next books if they flow as nicely as the first three, come on Martin you can do it!
3 I probably am not adding anything new, if feels like I've been reading Thai forever and am still not through it. I hope with the show going it will force this story somewhere. Anywhere. Because I feel like I've read a billion pages and I feel- nowhere.
1 Unlike the many readers who started this series and had to wait for years to read the next book, I bought and read the first 4 and only waited a month to read this one. I will not be waiting for nor purchasing any further books in this series.Mr. Martin put together an interesting cast of characters. He developed them quite well. I became vested in their stories. I feel like I have been betrayed by the author through the deaths of some of them. Every book loses characters through conflict, that's what makes the story more real and more interesting at times. However, manipulating the story line to make it seem that things are going one way, only to chop down the character instead, is something I feel is wrong.Throughout the series, the tenor of the books has become increasingly dark. Things have become more violent, sadistic and crude. I found that more and more disconcerting. It may be that Mr. Martin feels that this fits in better with today's society and its tastes. I hope not. I have been reading fantasy for almost 50 years. There is some really great stuff out there, but I'm done with Mr. Martin.
4 Ok...so it's book 5, read the other four so I'm hooked.  All in all a very satisfying read...but honest to goodness, one just never knows who Martin is going to kill off!I confess, there has been more than one occasion where I tossed down the book ( any of the 5) in frustration as one of my favorite characters was killed.If you like this series, book 5 does not disappoint
5 Continues the saga, fills them gaps, quicker reading than the other books.
4 Based on the other reviews I almost didn't read this book. I ended up enjoying it, and the last 500 pages moved quickly. True, nobody really gets to where we as readers want them to, but the setup for book 6 is really interesting. That said, Martin's editor needs to get a bit more aggressive with the delete button and keep inanities such as dragon queen and fearless raider Dany saying one more time &#34;I'm just a young girl and know little...&#34; from creeping into book 6.  I enjoyed this more than book 4, which was a big letdown for me after the intensity of book 3.
5 This was a tremendous undertaking.  Different kingdoms, different families - everyone fighting for the throne.  The whole series is great and I am so anticipating his next 2 promised books.
3 The story is compelling. I love the characters. Have since the first book. Tyrion is one of my favorite literary creations of the past 20 years. I still grieve for Eddard Stark. But holy mother of God, Mr. Martin, have them get off their bloody arses and DO something! I do not want to wait another 5 years for A Song of Fire and Ice Vol. VI: Marching Into Tedium....and another thing. Stop killing off your most beloved main characters. I spend 4000 pages getting emotionally invested in a character only to find out that they were a long term redshirt? It doesn't make me wary of things when it's done too often (and it's done way too often), it makes me feel as if the author has played a really big joke on me and he's the only one laughing. So move the story along already and let someone live.To George's editors: grab your red pencils and do your job. Words are wind. Too much wind is a tornado.
5 I skipped Book 4 because it did not have my favorite characters.  This is great and I don't feel like I have missed a lot.
4 I think if you put a Feast for Crows into a single interwoven volume with Dance with Dragons, and if Dance had been 200 pages longer, there is a fine story there.Without a doubt there are great story lines and good characters in Dance. What is lacking is any discipline on the part of the author to honor that unspoken pledge with his readers to "get the whole story out there" in manageable form. Just when things get interesting ... he ends it.Feast had too much action. Dance not enough. Put them together and I suspect they balance out - if you could "sell" the public on a 2000 page or so book.7 volumes should be enough to tell the story. But at the rate plot development is going, it seems like at least 12 volumes will be needed, unless things get totally rushed at the end.I wouldn't care if Martin worked with a good writing panel (call 'em ghosts if you want) since he is a wonderful story teller (but perhaps not a wonderful writer). Then the "database" of character insights, backstory history, could be woven into a more compact, more disciplined book. Or books.Things I didn't like about Dance:Daenerys, the second best character in the series, seems incapable of being tough enough to rule, and ditzes around, then makes a horrible choice to avoid a war that is inevitable anyway. The "real" Dany only comes through in her last chapter....We didn't get enough of Tyrion at his best, showing off what a wonderfully smart administrator and keen politician he is.Jon Snow is acting like he is 20 years more experienced than he is, but makes some incredibly stupid choices at the end.Arya, a really interesting character in the previous books, has chapters that seem "tossed off." What was arcane and mysterious, a "girl's best adventure" feel, that somehow seems mundane on this re-visit.This book is about a 3, Feast was about a 2, the series is better than a 5. In this case the sum is much greater than its parts, but I no longer have hopes that Martin will ever finish it. Clearly he has other projects (not only HBO) and at the same time he seems unwilling to take guidance from his editors and just get the book out there.On the other hand if he can get the next book out there in less than 2 years, he will certainly probably win me back. I mean Dickens and Dumas pounded out great pulp fiction, pulp fiction that was at the same time art, and Song of Fire and Ice clearly has that potential as well.
5 We can only hope that Ser GRR Martin hurries up and brings us the next instalment pronto. I would not like it if the TV show will tell us first what happens...
5 George martin delivers again, the detail, the plot twists, the ever engrossing word of wonder and fantasy, I literally can not wait fir the sixth
5 This is a "can't put down" story I have enjoyed every book of this series and can't wait for the next one to be finished.The characters come to life in this epic story of the struggle to live their lives amongst the upheaval of wars and treachery of the Kings and Queen of the Seven Kingdoms. A great read.
4 The book was great; the ending was unsatisfying.  This book did not clarify what happened to all of the characters that we have grown to love in the books and HBO.  What happened to The Stark children; to the Lannister children; to Tyrion; to Jon Snow and his wolf.  I know it implied that Jon was killed, but what about his wolf and does he change...IS he really dead???  What about Danyeres and her dragons???  Does she make it to Westeros?  Get busy George R.R. Martin...Your story is not finished and we are waiting for the next book.
5 I found this series to be engaging yet Book 6 and 7 are planned and not written.  Bummer for those of us that are caught up in the stories.  Love the HBO series.
4 I am still anxious to find out what will happen next!  Waiting impatientlyfor the next book to come out.
2 What a long and boring book.  Loved the first four but this book jumps around and nothing is finished.  What the heck!  Is Mr. Martin losing it?  I'm sorry I bought it.
5 George Martin is a great story teller! Rich story plot, but well told. Characters are complex, but their changes/ development is logical and believable. wonderful
5 I love these books so much. Martin does a wonderful job of pulling you into his world. I'm looking forward to the rest of this series.
3 This series may have been inspired by the Wars of the Roses, but readers now find themselves in the grim landscape of the Hundred Years War.I start with 5 stars for good writing, inventiveness, seriousness of theme and purpose and in  general what I would call truthfulness.  What I mean by that is that most of the more dire events throughout the entire series have been set in motion by the follies and failures of various of the characters.  For example,  the sequence of events which ended in the Red Wedding began with Caitlyn.  She presumed to insert herself into war and statecraft, persuits for which she had no training and less aptitude.  Possibly she did so out of a deep seated jealousy of the intriguer Cersei.  She failed in her duty to provide motherly comfort and support for her remaining son, provoking him into an unwise marriage, and then compounded that folly by seriously underestimating the vengefullness of the Freys.I take away one star for poor, as in, perhaps, nonexistent, editing. For this there can be no excuse.  This series has been lucrative for author and publisher alike.  The publisher could and should have afforded editing which might have excised some of the too often repeated phrases, maybe pointed out to Martin that Tyrion the Oversexed Dwarf does not make a good picaresque character.I take away another half star for what I think are structural flaws which have plagued the entire series.  Chief among these is the conceit of telling the story through the increasingly clumsy device of POV chapters.  I think so intricate a story could have been better told by straitforward narrative.  Another half star for borrowing a new plot device--the heir in exile--from another recent fantasy series, and doing so badly.  That leaves a three star rating.Martin's writing is far better than what is on offer from most of his contemporaries, and this book has its moments.  The two scenes between Lord Manderly and Davos, the King's Hand, were my favorites; also, the Prince of Dorne makes a welcome reappearance.  Please, let us have more of the Sand Snakes, some of the most delightfully wicked female characters to appear in popular literature for some time.  But, something is going seriously wrong when the minor characters steal the show from the major ones.  I have never been able to abide Tyrion the Oversexed, but as a strategist, he had some interest.  A picaresque hero he is not.  He has neither the humor nor the humanity for such a role.  Jon Snow is a good character whom Martin didn't seem to know what to do with. Take away Dany's clarity of thought and purpose, and you are left with another willful teenager.I am wondering to what extent Martin is being influenced by the producers of his HBO series, because some of the more unwelcome developments in the book, such as dumbded down Dany, are exactly what one would expect from the idiots in TVland. Do we now have a new heir because HBO needed a beefcake male lead??  Usually, they wait till a work of fiction is FINISHED before they ruin it.There is a work of greatness buried in this series.  Its' theme, IMHO, is justice. I think the theme explains the lenghthiness of the series.  These books are not, and, I would suggest, are not meant to be, adventure stories.  Martin shows us cities and provinces both well governed (White Harbor) and neglected and plundered (King's Landing)  He shows how seemingly small acts of selfishness or foolishness can have large, even dire, consequences.  The bleakness and misery depicted are what happens when there is no justice to be had.  Thugs, wicked lords and their retainers, blood soaked cults,and serial killers do flourish in a Randian universe.  And that home truth is one which many readers don't want to hear, so they complain a bout lengthy wait, or boring descriptions etc, etc.My suggestion to Mr. Martin would be a) just like George Lucas, he needs an editor, and b) he should tell the HBO vampires to take a hike.
5 So many twists! Aaaaaaand we don't know who's dead or not dead, or about to be dead at the end of it? Can't wait until the next book comes out. Maybe I'll start over and read them all again from book 1.
5 I don't know how anyone who claims to enjoy the song of ice and fire saga could not love this book. Pure genius. Martin has created an entire realm of people and places, that makes me wish the series would never end, the characters have such stirring personification that they have become part of my world, invoking feelings for the characters. I love this book, although a slow start recapping the previous portion of the story, I love every sentence of this series. This is a must read for any fantasy reader!
5 The 5th book is just as heartwrenching as the rest, but I would highly recommend it, you won't regret it.
3 This series needs serious editing. There are so many character that it becomes unwieldy. The big problem is that nothing joins the characters together. They never interact. His last 2 books could have easily been a book of short stories about this realm.  Many characters never advance the story. The story moves at such a glacial pace, you stop caring.It is a big shame could have been a classic work like the Lord of the Rings if GRRM had the discipline to stick to fewer viewpoints and tightend up the story.  Instead, he goes down the path of Robert Jordan and indulges himself with writing about everything under the sun.
5 I have fallen in love with all the characters in this book, whether its because I truly love them or just love to hate them! I can't wait for the next book to see where the story continues!
5 This is just one of those series that you absolutely have to read... don't delay otherwise you will not know what the popular topics of conversation are all about :)Very well written and I cannot wait for the next instalment :)
4 first build up a character as though he/she is indomitable/indefatigable and is going to be central to the plot.and just when you are enjoying that character, then suddenly kill that character and leave the reader in utter shock/disbelief.seems to work every time (in each of his books in the series).and another 5 year wait for the next sequel? sigh ...
5 I will make it short and sweet. I couldn't put it down. You've come this far. Keep going... it will be worth it.
5 My mother and friends love these books, I have been hearing about them since they first came out over 10 years ago. A great series everyone should get them.
5 Ok Mr Martin I'm ready to read book six already. Sure wish you would let the good guys get a break now and then but that is my only complaint about this book. Please hurry with the next one Ser!
2 GRRM writes so well he almost gets away with not having much plot.  Almost.  I was unable to put down the first four installments in the Game of Thrones series; not so with Dragons, sorry to say.  In fact, it was something of a chore to get through.  I would say I don't want to give anything away, but honestly, there's not much to give away.  I felt a little irritated that after 1000 or so pages very little had really happened.  Big yawn. :|
3 I really hate to say this but...I loved the first 4 books in this series. I grant you, some more than others but love them I did. So it  pains me to admit that I have no love for this installment. In fact, i am shocked to say I found it extremely tedious. There was so much journeying and very little arriving that it was like an interminable, one step forwards two steps back , talky travelogue. It seems GRRM may need a more assertive editor.I knew that his book was going to feel more like book 4, volume 2 than a book 5 but I still found it disconcerting that ADWD went back over already travelled ground. I would have preferred that the two books had been split by time rather than POV but that's just me. At about the 70% mark  it did get somewhat more interesting..When Cersei's story was continued I became more engaged, but Briennes story development was kind a wtf moment for me. Did I misread that last time we saw her? No explanation , really?Tyrion, usually a POV I enjoy the most was one I found myself reading some pages and skimming many  others. My heart sank in disappointment a couple of times when I approached his chapters. What a yawn.I also thought that the sexually explicit scenes and vocabulary, while always on the crude side, veer further into the arena of the gratuitous and perverse n this book. Especially when it comes to describing women. It came across as relentlessly  demeaning. One scene in particular comes to mind: a certain wedding night. I understand that the behavior of the groom was in line with his character but the bride was supposed to be only 10 or 11 yrs old! A line was crossed there for me. GRRM just loves the C word doesn't he? It never bothered me previously. I barely noticed it before, but it irritated me at times with this one.So, sadly this was a disappointing read for me.
5 Here it is! I couldn't wait for the release of this book!  The author answers lots of our questions but leaves lots of story lines for the next book. I can't wait! This has been my favorite series of all time... Hurry up, Goerge! I can't stand the suspense!
3 Six years after A Feast For Crows indicated Martin had lost control over his narrative, A Dance With Dragons essentially confirms it.This book is by no means as bad as the previous one - Feast was an unmitigated disaster.  This one had some interesting twists, intriguing scenes, fun moments, gritty depictions of a brutal winter campaign, and some entertaining chapters concentrating on Victarion.  But one main purpose of Dance was to concentrate on the stories of three main characters who were completely ignored in Feast: Tyrion Lannister, Jon Snow and Daenerys Targaryen.  Jon's story arc actually has some closure.  Tyrion bounces around in fits and starts, flashes his great wit, and becomes a clown.  Daenerys frets, whines, dawdles, lives a life of luxury while the city she conquered deteriorates into dust, has various bouts of porn sex with a random lover, and makes Rand al'Thor from The Wheel of Time books 6-8 look active, involved and decisive.Other storylines moved forward (Bran), others moved sideways, and yet more players entered into the great game of thrones.  Can Martin resolve his story in just two more books (and less than 11 years to produce them)?  Not at this rate -- he has too many characters just making small moves on an enormous chessboard.  Martin's style doesn't help - he indulges in the Jordanesque trademark of lengthy descriptions of dress and uniform (Martin's indulgence is heraldry and whatever Dany's wearing, Jordan's was women's medieval dresses), when he should take a couple of lessons from Hemingway or Hammett and reduce the background noise so he can move the story forward.  And his editor needs a new pen to clip the extraneous words.All said, better than Feast but not near the quality of books 1-3 and there's too much left unresolved to believe the series can end in 7 books.
5 The story continues - and it is still exciting and worth the read.  Tyrion's story continues - I was left wondering about him at the end of the last book.  As usual, any book by George R.R. Martin is good reading.
5 GRR Martin continues the Westeros saga in this 5th installment (out of an estimated 7).  Book number 6 is expected in March 2013, and I for one can hardly wait for it.  For fantasy fans and Martin readers, "A Dance with Dragons" is more of the same great stuff that makes his work so addictive!
1 I've edited my review to 1 star. This is an improvement over Feast of Crows. I've also seen it compared to Jordan's Crossroads of Twilight. I don't believe it's anywhere near as bad as that. That being said it's not good.Good things:One. Pacing. Feast suffered from pacing issues. I think this was caused by the splitting of the novel. Since everything that happened focused for the most part around King's Landing it didn't have the feel that previous novels had. Martin is a genius at leaving you on the edge of your seat. You're reading about Tyrion and the end of the chapter gets there and cliffhanger, and you're in a Jon chapter and although you love Jon you want to know what happened to Tyrion. Then he pulls you into Jon. Then Jon cliffhangers and it's an Arya chapter. Feast was missing that but Dance has it back.Two. Everybody is back. There aren't many chapters but there are Jaime and Cersei chapters. There's no getting to the end of the book and not having at least checked in on your favorites.Three. Style. Martin is still a good writer, no question. He has been and remains a master of the written word. Period.Indifferent thing:It ends with cliffhangers and no plots are tied off. Well it's part of a series. Plot was moved forward in this book make no mistake. Nothing was wrapped up but I won't complain about that for another two books. It is what it is.Bad things:One. Introduction of a major new character. One that was not foreshadowed, set up, or honestly needed. New characters are fine. Not pivotal ones. We should have a full cast at this point. Because one of two things will happen. Martin will kill him so what was the point. Two he becomes a major part of end story resolution so why didn't we have him sooner. It's sloppy story telling.Two. Introduction of pointless minor characters. We get introduced to some new points of view. Some were characters we have seen before just never followed from a POV. One in particular was brand new. One was killed and I didn't care. It was a throw away character. Martin never made me truly care for him so there wasn't the shock I had with Eddard's execution or the Red Wedding. Since Martin doesn't have a problem killing characters I wasn't even shocked that he died. Just mildly surprised because it was sloppily done and not what I would expect from Martin.Three. Daenerys and Tyrion. Two of my favorite characters who were always guaranteed to entertain sucked. Tyrion wasn't Tyrion. Yeah he's dealing with some stuff but when hasn't he. It wasn't the same character from the first three books. Daenerys... The one character who had a clarity of purpose and action at all times didn't throughout the whole book. "you must go back to go forward." I read that and cringed. Eleven years man. The Daenerys storyline doesn't need moved back. Nothing needs moved back.Four. Too familiar plot tricks. Another Stark doesn't listen to his wolf. Tyrion's wisecracks get him hit again... and again... and again...Five. Stupid tricks. Not using the characters name in the chapter title but a description. For instance a Selmy chapter marked as Queen's Hand. He does it alot and it gets annoying. You'll see.So eleven years, countless broken promises, missed deadlines, and half a novel for this. It's not as bad as Crossroads of Twilight but Jordan didn't take eleven years to write it. Plus I've edited my review to one because the number of lackluster 5 star reviews that use similar wording and seem fishy.....
5 I cannot wait until the next one. I am sure it will be just as great. Truly wonderful in every way.
5 these books just keep getting better. I cannot wait for the next installation. I love the direct delivery to my kindle.
5 A wonderful read after the less intriguing fourth book. Martin returns to his cliffhangers and twists that make you unable to put the book down.
5 Amazing book, its a heavy read but you will not put it down. I don't want to spoil anything but I simply cannot wait for the next book.
2 This book is a short novella masquerading as a bloated tome.  It desperately needs harsh and impartial editing.Even if you like the series, you can skip this one in favor of reading the spoilers in the reviews here.  Or perhaps just read the last 150 pages to get the cliffhangers, but they aren't really cliffhangers since their outcomes have been so heavily foreshadowed you know what will happen.
5 Just like the others can't put it down. Got a little sluggish in the middle bit picked up and delivered! When's the next one coming?
5 Worth the wait - not sure. A good read? Of course - classic Martin leaves you wanting more, hating him, loving him and thoroughly depressed over the inevitable 5 year wait (if we're lucky) until the next installment.
5 What can I say, This is book five I have ordered, I have enjoyed reading and sometimes it is hard to put down because you get so involved, Love the twist and turns, Great book !
3 5 Star Review: This book was awesome!  And it would have been even more awesomer if it had a plot!3 Star Review: Eh, it was okay.  Could have used a plot.1 Star Review: This book stunk!  Where's the plot?It's unanimous!This review will be replaced with a real review when the series is complete. Maybe.  Hey, I'm not your puppy.Warning: This incomplete series may have caused a slight case of Martin Derangement Syndrome in this reviewer.  Consume responsibly.  Limit: 3 books per day.
1 At about 900 reviews to date of A Dance With Dragons I doubt my humble review will either encourage or discourage anyone from reading this book.  However, I feel the need to throw my hat into the ring.I HAVE read and reread the previous 4 books in this series.  This will come as no surprise but I thoroughly enjoyed the first 3 books.  In fact as a reader of fantasy, I felt Mr. Martin brought a whole new dimension to the genre.  He had a way of making us look at people and their motivations in a whole new light - I always felt that there was a bitter truth to his writing - that even though it was fantasy it was very much real - yes there are people who are truly good and are not motivated by selfish interests, but by the interest and betterment of others - but there are many who are selfish, willing to win at all costs, and will do anything no matter how ugly to achieve their goals.  IMHO no one could write those kinds of characters and situations like GRRM.  Sadly, in A Feast for Crows that began to change (I believe I gave that book 3 stars with a wait a see about what was supposed to be forthcoming A Dance With Dragons.Forward to 2011 and A Dance With Dragons has arrived.  Unfortunately, I found it to be a major disappointment.  It has a even slower pace (who would have thought that possible) than AFfC and my most beloved characters have taken a giant leap backward in their personal development.  To all the 5 star reviewers I respect that it  is a matter of personal opinion.  I wish I could have loved this book as much as many of you do, unfortunately, I do not.  Why?  Well here are several of my reasons:Possible Spoilers (I don't think so, but .....)Tyrion:  probably my favorite surviving character up to this point (others I cared about had already fallen by the wayside unless strangly resurrected in this book - I am not even going to go there . . .).  He has always been a strong character, great at plotting and schemes, surviving against overwhelming odds by the use of his wit - now he is a pale reflection of that character, whiney, playing a fool - and if I had to hear "where do whore's go" one more time I was going to scream.Daenerys:  A woman who has overcome unbelieveable odds, virtually coming through the fire, crossing deserts, raising an army, hatching dragons, intent on her purpose to return to Westeros and reclaim the throne she feels was stolen from her family has become an ineffectual, sex starved, wanna-be queen.  The way she has turned on her dragons is so off character that it doesn't make sense to me and also the fact that she can no longer make a decision.Pacing - by the end of the book many of our characters never made it to their destination nor were there many plot resolutions.  Since AG of T we have been "teased" about the Others - yet what more do we know about them?  Poor editing.  Introduction of too many new characters and too much detail in this book on minor characters.I could drone on (like the book) but what is the point.  Personally I am done with the series.  My ending goes something like this:"Others cross the wall,take over all of Westeros,  turn everyone into other "Others" - sail to all of the other kingdoms and zombie them also - then they all live happily ever after."
3 It'd been so long since the last installment to the series I'd almost forgotten all the characters and definitely didn't know where we left off.  Unlike all the earlier books, I found it hard to continue to read this book, I keep going "I'd rather get some sleep..." or "um, I'd rather sit here for the next 30 mins. waiting for the movie to start then read this book...."  Not good.  I didn't really care enough about any of the men claiming to be king of everyone to want to read anything about them; who cares who wins since any of them is just like the next one and none of them is going to make much of a king.  We waited so long for this book and what a disappointment.  Feels to me like Martin's publisher was breathing down his neck bigtime, not to mention his reader fans, so he just threw some empty-calories dish together and called it dinner.  I hope the next one is much better.  And I still say he ought to have written the Daenerys story as a separate offshoot, like McCaffrey did with the dragonriders, drummers, singers, etc.  I always want to skip over the Daenerys chapters since I find them only distracting from the "main" story--if I ever reread this series (and that is questionable), I may buy used copies of the book and tear them apart, read the main story first then see if the Daenerys story is worth rereading.  I do not find her intriguing or beautiful since she's just been using men, and then she's turned against her own dragons who brought her fame and fear.  Martin had better make the next 2 books unbelievably great or his whole series will die.  And btw, maps on the Kindle (at least the on with the 6" screen) are always fuzzy and impossible to read and I have never figured out why when the Kindle opens a new book it skips over the cover, the dedication page, the author's Prologue or whatever--some of us like to read that stuff first (it's like having an appetizer before the main meal).  Also want to comment that if Amazon continues to increase the price of Kindle books, I may consider some other e-reader when I want a new one.  My friend uses an eReader and can download books free from the library.
5 I really enjoyed reading this addition of Game of  Thrones. The author introduced new characters and a great deal more intrigue. He also continued to build on those characters that we know and love. In my opinion, the most memorable scene was when the black Dragon appeared in the fighting pits. This was an overall great read. I hope all of you enjoy reading it as much as I did. FANTASTIC!!!!!!
5 Intrigue abounds at every turn. This is the best epic fiction I have ever read, although I loved &#34;the Lord of the Rings&#34; as well. This appeals more with medieval overtones and chivalry, and dragons.
5 I loved all of the books in this series! I wish there were more books to read on these characters.
5 Loved every word of it, I can't wait to read the next book. This book was almost impossible to put down.  My hats off to Mr. Martin he has done it again.
4 George R. R. Martin's A SONG OF ICE AND FIRE saga continues with the much-anticipated fifth in the series, A DANCE WITH DRAGONS. For those not familiar with the series, these are the books on which HBO's Emmy award winning television series, GAME OF THRONES, is based. (The first book in the series is titled, A GAME OF THRONES.) Martin's series is peopled with what I consider to be some of the best characters in modern literature. These are multidimensional personalities with genuine emotions. The villains are not evil through and through, and no hero is without blemish. This, along with the fact that Martin is utterly vicious to his characters, leaving the reader with the feeling that no one is safe within these pages, makes these volumes a must read for anyone even remotely interested in the fantasy genre. That said, A DANCE WITH DRAGONS is not flawless. Even for the initiated the first two hundred pages can be quite confusing. Martin doesn't give us any reminders as to where any of these characters left off in previous volumes. Many of the most loved characters were not in book four, A FEAST FOR CROWS, and so their plot threads date all the way back to A STORM OF SWORDS, released in 2000. My memory just isn't that good. I would have enjoyed the story much more if there had either been a recap prior to the beginning of the story, or at least some explanatory dialogue to help refresh the reader's mind. Even after completing the book, I'm still not sure what Tyrion's goal was at the onset of the story. All this to say that once I got into the flow of the story I couldn't pull myself away from it. Martin is masterful when it comes to interweaving plot lines, deceptions, betrayals, lost loves, and fantastic action and suspense. Much of the focus for nearly all of the characters falls on Daenerys Targaryen, the would-be queen of the seven kingdoms who is now the "Mother of Dragons." Everyone either wants to manipulate, use, or defeat the young woman with a will of fire. And though she is the focal point for so many, she is unaware of the scheming and infighting across the sea to the lands which she may one day rule. Readers beware, there are some significant shocks in the second half of this tome, and they are very well worth the wait. If you've read the previous four volumes, your wait will be well rewarded. If you've never read this series, I encourage you to get started with A GAME OF THRONES. You won't regret it.
3 I liked the book but did not like the way that it ended.  The ending left too many unanswered questions that require another book for the series.
4 Incredible series and extremely hard to put down once you start into one of the books.  Dark and feudal and most definitely bloody.  Surprising how Martin seems to like the bad guys to win almost all of the time.  But like most fans we surely do wonder when, or if, he will ever find an ending to this series.
5 I long for the series to continue.  I can't wait for the next book.  It's an addictive tale with so may more possibilities.
5 Sorry to see the series end but an amazing read!! Game of thrones is one of the best books I've read
4 Having read all 5 books, I think it is time in book 6 or no later than 7 to bring all the threads together and wrap them in one glorious ending.  Does anyone have a suggestion where all this should end up?  It is time for Dany to go to Westeros and clean house.
2 The first two chapter were somewhat interesting, but after that it got very bland.  It was like the author was trying to get somewhere, but was killing off all the main character and left you without any sense as to what just happened.  Did I fall asleep and just passed all the intigue and why he was going the way he went.  It left me high and dry without any reason. Very disappointing, after reading the first 4 books that were so great, now this one horrible.
1 Too many characters to keep track of after waiting entirely too long for the 5th book. The book beat to death unrelated characters and bogged down in its mirco plots.  The book was chopped to pieces. Maybe Martin will be able to bring it all together, but I doubt I'll live long enough to see that happen, what with his world book signing tours and missed deadlines. Will I buy his next book? NOPE! I'm done with Martin. I paid my money for the book and I was feel I was cheated.
5 I have been too busy reading these fantastic tales and now looking for more.  Can not get enough of his writing.  I think his next book is Winds of Winter and should be out soon.
2 I had looked forward to this latest novel of George R. R. Martin, having enjoyed the preceding books in the series. What a disappointment - frankly it was a grind to read and several times I almost gave up.He is doubtless a great writer with impressive prose and active imagination. However ...I found the story thread impossible to follow as it is disjoint.There are endless introspections and flash backs that add little to the story.He must have used the word 'jape' and 'mummer' a hundred times and I found it irritating.There are far too many secondary characters that left me confused, and muddied the story line.The book is far too long for what it has to say.A pity.
4 I'm pretty amused at all the people giving bad reviews to the FIFTH book in the series they have read.  The same people will be pre-ordering "The Winds of Winter" as soon as it becomes available.Yes, the book moves slowly. At times Martin follows characters I don't care about.  About halfway through, several characters get a bad case of the stupids simply to alter the plot. At the end, you aren't sure who is dead and who has betrayed.But, for hundreds of pages you are riding with Tyrion and waiting for his next bit of sarcasm.  You are back at the Wall with Jon trying to manage an impossible situation. Daenerys, Barriston the Bold, Victarion, and others make their way through the story.You have read the first 4 books so of course you will be reading this one.
5 Breathtaking as usual, G.R.R. Martin still uses its magic pen.  The reader is always  surprised with new jumps in the intrigue.  The Seven know  how will the sixth book end... I don't.
3 If you read the others then I recommend this one. Dude this is the next book in the series. Its fun to read about the Starks and the Lanisters. And even mediocre Martin is better that most books out there. So yes I recommend this but it might take a while to get through it.
3 DRAGONS is a long book and a lot happens in it, but it feels short on major/pivotal events, either on the large scale or on a personal level. The closest things to major events come within a stone's throw of the end but they're only the beginnings of the events themselves (and not coincidentally, I was ready to make this a four-star review until I got into the book's last fifty pages). In one storyline, a battle is shaping up between Daenerys' divided city of Mereen and the armies and mercenaries of Yunkai, and it appears to have begun--but we'll find out for sure in the next book. In the North of Westeros, two storylines and their characters meet head-to-head in another major battle--but it takes place offstage; we hear about it in a short letter, which is probably not entirely truthful, and we won't get the full account until the next installment of the series (if ever). And on the Wall, the storyline blows up in a three- or four-pronged crisis--and that's it; curtain, and stay tuned for WINDS OF WINTER. (And even the cliffhanger effect of this is undercut, because it's not the book's last chapter.) In a book this long, we should have gotten the events themselves, not just the slow buildup to them.Counting chapters (I haven't tried to add up pages), over half the book follows the three main storylines of Daenerys/Ser Barristan Selmy, Tyrion Lannister, and Jon Snow. The rest is shorter episodes from fourteen other viewpoints, including some newly-introduced characters. Daenerys kind of dithers in an impossible situation, and Tyrion travels and travels (and is not my favorite character, though he appears to be Martin's). I was most interested in events in the North and on the Wall, and possibly the most gripping storyline is that of Theon Greyjoy (the new Reek), now a traumatized slave of the Bastard of Bolton. Bran Stark's story advances only a few small steps, and in a major disappointment, we don't learn anything more about the Others.In an afterword, Martin says he found the writing of this volume extremely difficult (I'm paraphrasing). I have to acknowledge that the book shows evidence of a tremendous amount of research (all this detail is not just made up), and a lot of writer's craft -- for example, there's a line casually included in Melisandre's chapter that has significant implications for the fate of characters and the direction of the story (and at least one of the cliffhangers). But one could wish that a little more writer's craft had been applied to the structure of the plot, or that a good editor with some backbone had been involved.Minor complaint: "You know nothing, Jon Snow." I was so happy when Ygritte was killed off and we didn't have to hear this any more. Now other characters have picked it up, and Jon has even started saying it to himself. Sheesh.
1 Ice and Fire Books 1 through 3 are brutal, powerful, and engaging if you can look beyond the cruelty and enjoy the "game".  Book 4 is brutal, ponderous and not very interesting.  Book 5 is brutal, boring, circuitous, and disappointing, and contains nothing but cruelty.  Martin has lost the game, dropped the reins, left the building.Having just slogged through "A Dance with Dragons", I am no longer interested in the fates of the characters -- those who remain -- and Mr. Martin's world has become an endless, dreary hell of death, destruction and despair.  I will not buy Books 6 through Infinity as I don't want to read about unrelenting hatred, gratuitous violence, baby killing, blood sacrifice, grotesque animal abuse, face eating and/or excrement eating, body fluids, gore, little boys being thrown overboard because "their kind" shouldn't be allowed to live, and men whose only use for women is to "take" them forcibly as a prelude to killing them.  Really, how many child rapes can an author cram into a series?  Hey! I enjoy sex scenes as much as the next person, but some of this dreadful stuff is kiddie porn.It seems that Mr. Martin continues to write not to advance the story lines established in Books 1-3, but to vividly describe each and every horrible way a woman, man, child, infant, or beast can be gruesomely hurt and/or die.  And, oh yeah, forget about dying and coming back to a happy afterlife! Indeed, every story development that could be considered even slightly uplifting was left hanging back in Book 3.In some reviews of the early Ice and Fire books, Martin was favorably compared to Tolkien -- undeniably, Martin can write a powerful description. And, each author does have a double-barreled middle name! However, Tolkien developed an intricate, magical world in which loyalty, compassion, honor and even--gasp!--love could endure.  Martin's world is so dark and his characters so despicable that nothing worthy can endure. Tolkien wrote about a quest, Martin writes about --what? -- who cares?Take the advice of many reviewers -- save your grey matter and skip this one.
3 The delayed fifth novel in the maligned "A Song of Ice and Fire" saga "A Dance with Dragons" chronologically co-exists within the time period of the fourth book and beyond.  The political maneuvering grows convoluted and much of the action occurs between chapters.  A couple vague examples are where a fight or escape or other peril will begin at the end of a chapter to provide the clich&eacute; cliff hanger.  On the next character chapter, the fight or escape or peril is over and one reads the aftermath.  At least we have a lengthy description of the delicacies and wine at the dinner table though.The primary individual chapters are Jon Snow, Daenerys Targaryen, and Tyrion.  Bran, Davos Seaworthy, and Theon Greyjoy compile the minor roles.  Jon has probably the best progress in the overall plot, maybe the book should have been titled, "Snowed in with Snow".  Daenery dispenses justice over her people while trying to maintain peace, disciplines dragons, meets diplomats, and dreams of sex.  Tyrion, as crude and funny as he can be, is the most entertaining in a painfully prolonged journey.  Theon's effectively captures his cruel environment, but very disturbing at times.  Arya and Bran each have a couple potent chapters.  Sansa and Rickon do not appear.  As strange as it may sound, I found one of the uniquely fascinating scenes involve Arya's face.After waiting 6 years for a novel supposedly near finished when "A Feast for Crows" was published, I'm very disappointed in the end product.  Tolkien is the only Tolkien, I will never say otherwise.  Martin has his own style with audacity and grittiness, something many appreciated in the first foundation building couple books.  The series isn't for everyone, but those writing reviews are the ones who more often than not gave glowing reviews on the initial installments.  I am one voice in a world where the author has made it clear many times he does not care what anyone thinks.  I wonder if it applies to those who positively placate his ego.  Reason I state it that way is because he does himself, his fans, and future fans a great disservice by not heeding any criticism by blinding himself like a nave prince.  I think his initial potential is being squandered.A greater assortment of major and minor characters, from lords to stable boys, requires a more detailed appendix, perhaps a section in alphabetical order. A small dictionary of important words would be valuable.  Some portions of the map could have incorporated further detail especially the continents where the story relates.I recommend this series to any fan of the fantasy genre.Thank you.
2 If you have read all the previous books, expect another AFFC in term of general plot development and satisfying resolutions (not much).If you are new to the series I can only recommend to wait at least till the next book or even better till the end of the series.First three books were great and I would recommend them to anyone who has nothing to read, because they are very good by themselves.The last two volumes - "A Feast for Crows" and "A Dance with Dragons" are not that great. Almost nothing is really happening to move the plot ahead. You can get through them on a momentum gained from the first books, but if the series are never finished (Martin began to write them in 1991, so do your math) it will be just a waste of time and a source of disappointment.
2 I feel that there were too many details and story lines that needed resolution.Characters left hanging. I'm sorry that I ever started this series and I may be dead before thefinal 2 books are published. Perhaps I should create my own endings?
5 With every chapter of this book things get more entangled. I was hooked from beginning to end although there were times when it was a struggle to get through . I can't for the next one to come out even though it's going to take 20,000,000 years for it to come out.
2 Stop!  If you are a fan of the Fire and Ice series, do not read this book.  Nothing of import is going to happen and by skipping this book you still may still have the chance of keeping those warm fuzzy feelings you've kept in regards to this series.
2 Martin is a very good writer. We have to understand that we're reading an ancient political drama, and a lot of the time in a feudal society people die. But Martin seems to forget that most people read epic fantasy books for a dramatic story of protagonist and antagonist with eventually the good side winning in the end. Its called an escape from reality for a reason. In the Song books, no one ever wins.As the series goes on it gets slightly more depressing. Not in the 'Harry Potter' way either, unless Harry dies in the first book and Hermione is raped every now and then. But in a way that seems that even when the series is all over, and even if humanity survives in the end, who really cares? Everyone you cheered for is either dead or crippled, and Martin is going to be discussing what the few survivors are eating or something.Overall I enjoyed the book, I'm just disappointed with the overall downturn of the series.
5 But alas, George is not edited enough. The story is so great, why must he blunder on about food and send us on wild goose chases before something that affects the plot happens? It's getting worse and worse with each book. The first three were masterpieces. George! I implore you as a fellow author. Let your editors edit!! This blathering does not become your genius.Anyway, I loved the story and characters and so I'm hooked until this is finished. I'm praying for better critique partners and for the author to heed their suggestions.
5 Another page turner with twists and turns holding you to the moment. You read and read hoping for answers only to find the end is nowhere in sight. Cliffhangers in onions, snow, blind girls and beggars will have you surfing for more and praying George Martin gets on with the Winds of Winter. Thoroughly enjoyable.
3 After reading four of the books, and they were great while I was reading them, I began to wonder if the reason GRRM has a difficult time writing these last books in the series is because he doesn't have an end plan in mind. I don't really like the fact that after following my heros for four books he decides to kill them off. The many minor characters he creates are interesting, but they won't keep me reading to the end of the series. I want my heros back!!!
4 Too many new stories were involved. like the deathlyhollows it just kept on and on.i do admit it keeps me guessing
5 I love this set of books - best fantasy in quite a while. Everytime I think I know whats going to happen - something different happens. Kept me surprised which is hard to do after reading fantasy for 30+ yrs. Can't wait till the next one and the HBO series is fantastic. Follows the story as well as a series can.
5 Wow!  At the risk of incurring the oh so "insightful" disses of my positive review from the trolling trolls going through and accusing the writers of robo-reviewing or of having been somehow monetarily compensated by GRRM for their having attested to liking his book, let me just say I loved this one.  I guess I can take solace in the fact that my reading preferences jibe with those of the literati reviewing for the major publications and I can also take comfort that my reading preferences do NOT jibe with those of the ill-literati who have (apparently) nothing better to do with their time than endlessly comment on other reviews of this book.  What's the matter guys, World of Warcraft lost it's luster?  I can understand someone not liking a book; what I can't quite comprehend is someone making it their life's mission to excoriate the opinions of those who disagree.  Who exactly is getting paid for what here???!As far as my review, as my rating shows I really enjoyed this book.  Others have mentioned that the Dany chapters were meandering and draggy and seemed bogged down and I have to agree.  That's the 1/2 star off for me.  Otherwise I thoroughly enjoyed reading this one.  I for one adore the descriptions of food and heraldry and muck and grime; it made the story very real for me and immersed me into the world GRRM has created.  I especially loved how he counterbalanced the rich feasts for some with the desperate meals of horse-flesh or worse for others.  The aftermath of war and the precursor of another war plus Winter coming are harsh realities felt more by some than by others at this juncture.  Anyone else find the "pork" dishes suspicious?  Both the "roast pork" Coldhands brought to Bran et al and the giant Pork Pie Manderly served up after the disappearance of the Freys?I also appreciated how much I started DIS-liking Tyrion in this one.  He did something awful and his conscience is suffering and he is whinging away and self-pitying for a good part of the story.  It felt very real to me and it was very well done.The surprise introduction of another contender for the throne was also a lot of fun and I really loved the Varys bit at the end.  Oh no he didn't!  Can't wait to see the fallout from all that!The book felt to me much like the opening of a chess game with all the pieces being moved into place for the big finale.I, for one, am hopeful that the finale lives up to the build-up.  It seemed an impossible task to pull it all together in the end, but even though AFFC shook my faith a little, this one restores it and I am going to be waiting a few more years I'm sure to see how he starts wrapping it all together.
5 By the time I got to this book I had picked up on being able to understand what things were in the time setting and understood more, so I didn't have to read so slow or reread or look up things to understand....and when I got to watch the HBO series ...I could put a face with the characters and knew exactly what was going on.
1 This the last George R. R. Martin book I will waste my money and time on.  I absolutely loved the first four books of this series.  At the end of the 4th book Mr. Martin said that originally all the material was to be included in the 4th book, but since there was so much it had been divided into 2 books.  Ok.  But if that was truly the case, why did it take so long for the subsequent book to be released?  Even so, I waited until finally Dance With Dragons was released.  What a tremendous disappointment!  Absolutely NOTHING was resolved!So I'm done.  Done with this series and with George R. R. Martin.  You've gotten the last of my time and money that I'm willing to waste on this silliness.
4 Very disappointed that is left unfinished.  I must like it to have five books.  Where is the the book that finishes the story.
5 Grudgingly I must admit I very much enjoy the series that G.R.R.Martin is pounding out here.  The books are full of interesting characters, often subtly drawn as well as strong in the broad stroke.  For a while I threw the books aside, sick to death of 'real politik' and the slaughter or maiming of some of my favorite characters.  But then I return.  There are some large wheels turning in the background of pettiness and predatory politics and pointless wars and attacks upon the 'small folk'.  I do get a little impatient -- &#34;Let's get to it!&#34; -- but the story is told on such a broad front that it does take time and pages pages pages to get to the kill.Grudgingly I grant it a 94.
5 This final book of the series ties up some loose ends but still leaves many questions unanswered. What happens to Arya? What of Sansa? We need more answers!
4 and the stories and characters go on. with ever more twists and turns we are treated to more great story telling and now must wait for more!
5 I really enjoyed this book. Not too much I can say about it without spoilers, but it was definitely my second favorite of the series, right after A Storm of Swords.
3 I very much enjoyed all five books, however, I was disappointed there was no ending. It just leaves you wondering what happens. Winter never comes! I read the last book over a year ago. I thought Mr.Martin would have wrote another by now.
2 I, like everyone else, waited along time for this book. what a waste. I felt like it was a robert jordon book, where everyone traveled everywhere but noone did anything. I kept waiting and waiting for it to get better but it didn't. Reek's character was great, Asha interesting, but the rest...... he just left blowing in the wind. excuse, blowing on the ships or in some far off kingdom.  Take us down mainstreet and get to the meat of it already!!!
4 I w a s hoping that this would shine more light on t he finish of this story instead I am left feeling at loose ends . Hope the next instead  lament doesn't take y ears in the completion. Understand a novel of this magnitude can't be written over knight,but after airing so long for this on thinking it was the end,  ell so m what left empty.
5 I really enjoyed part 5 of George R. R. Martin's saga.  This book did a good job of bringing his story back together, so you could see that maybe the author really did have a plan.  I thought this was actually the best of the 5 so far.  wonder how far we will wait for the 6th book???
4 I found this went too slow in places and wandered toward no given conclusion.  I do hope the next novel ensures Jon Snow doesn't die.  He held the entire novel together.  I give it four stars only because it didn't hold its plot tight in various places.
1 Spoiler alert.Pros:Cersei's walk.  Stone people on river.  Warging in the beginning of the book with promise of Others.  Take down of some of the Freys.  Lord Manderly, now that's what I read these books, for.  What an interesting guy in such a horrible good way.Cons:No one gets anywhere, everybody is in mid journey to get somewhere. Not enough of the dragons, poor dragons.  Dany becomes wimpy, boring, and is in love with a boor.Bran turns into a tree, but for what reason?  No Jaimie, or explanation of why Brienne shows up.Tyrion has a lot to do with traveling with another little person, but nothing comes of it.  Jon fights with everybody and does nothing but get stabbed in between organizing foodstuffs, and talking to lots of people.And lots more.  Too many people get killed off, only to come back.  Arya continues to get used to killing people.  Same stuff.  Sansa and Littlefinger - not much happening, either.Seemed to be full of fillers of Dorne descriptions and the new Ageon.  Meerenese country and people so boring.  Lots of descriptions of food and traveling and eliminating wastes from the body. Some violent and disgusting sex, which seem like degrading s&m.;  In great detail.  For no good reason to further the plot or show character development.Someone should edit this man. Dance and Feast could have been one short volume, and something might happen in Winds.  If it ever does get written.Don't buy this.  Just get it from the library and skim.
5 I should have read this sooner, it fills the gaps in the HBO series, (somewhat, with cliff  hangers anew.) Lots of dragon shenegens.
5 Excellent! In this fifth book of the seven-book series, things unfold and many things stay open for the next books. The Starks are still eating the bread the devil kneaded, and the direwolves are incredibly important, but I  hope to see Dany going to Westeros and finishing the Lannisters. I just wish Martin would let sleeping dogs lie:)
3 I invested way too much time in this series before learning (after the fact) that there was no ending.  As much as I enjoyed the story I would not have started it if I knew it was never finished.
4 Yes, it's been a long wait. To tell the truth, it's been a very long wait. A wait that has spawned Grrrumblers and haters, a wait that saw a lot of mud thrown the author's way. A wait that has raised expectations to a level that is a little bit scary, if you ask me. A wait that's been made much more difficult given the fact that the latest volume, A Feast for Crows, wasn't received as well as its predecessors.Hence, the questions on everyone's lips are: Will A Dance With Dragons be worth the wait, and can the book possibly live up to the lofty expectations this interminable wait generated. Well, it is with great pleasure that I answer yes on both counts! The fifth installment in the A Song of Ice and Fire sequence delivers on basically all fronts. It's everything fans wanted it to be and then some! A Dance With Dragons isn't perfect, mind you. But it should silence George R. R. Martin's harshest detractors and demonstrate once again that, when he is writing at the top of his game, very few SFF authors, past or present, can spin a yarn the way GRRM can!Here's the blurb:In the aftermath of a colossal battle, the future of the Seven Kingdoms hangs in the balance--beset by newly emerging threats from every direction. In the east, Daenerys Targaryen, the last scion of House Targaryen, rules with her three dragons as queen of a city built on dust and death. But Daenerys has thousands of enemies, and many have set out to find her. As they gather, one young man embarks upon his own quest for the queen, with an entirely different goal in mind.Fleeing from Westeros with a price on his head, Tyrion Lannister, too, is making his way to Daenerys. But his newest allies in this quest are not the rag-tag band they seem, and at their heart lies one who could undo Daenerys's claim to Westeros forever.Meanwhile, to the north lies the mammoth Wall of ice and stone--a structure only as strong as those guarding it. There, Jon Snow, 998th Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, will face his greatest challenge. For he has powerful foes not only within the Watch but also beyond, in the land of the creatures of ice.From all corners, bitter conflicts reignite, intimate betrayals are perpetrated, and a grand cast of outlaws and priests, soldiers and skinchangers, nobles and slaves, will face seemingly insurmountable obstacles. Some will fail, others will grow in the strength of darkness. But in a time of rising restlessness, the tides of destiny and politics will lead inevitably to the greatest dance of all.The worldbuilding has always been one of my favorite aspects of this series. Granted, GRRM keeps his cards pretty close to his chest in that regard, and has been doing so since the very first volume. Hence, the tantalizing glimpses he offers us from time to time add new depth to an already convoluted overall story arc and multilayered plotlines that form the backdrop of the entire series. This time around, we finally learn more about the Doom of Valyria. More background information about the land beyond the Wall, the Free Cities, Slaver's Bay, and Westeros' past is unveiled in various POV sections of the book. I particularly enjoyed Sir Barristan Selmy's POV section. Having served a number of kings as a member of the Kingsguard, the knight offers an interesting perspective regarding the events which led to the current conflicts on both sides of the Narrow Sea.Many feel that A Feast for Crows' biggest failing was the tight focus of the narrative on a limited number of story arcs. For better or worse, Martin and his editors elected to concentrate on the events occurring in and around King's Landing, the Iron Islands, as well as Dorne. Many felt that this tight focus prevented the novel from being as epic as its predecessors. Which, I would have to agree, is true. On the other hand, A Dance With Dragons is a sprawling monster of a book. The action takes place in a panoply of countries, regions, cities, and locales, each with their own flavor. As such, A Dance With Dragons is, in style and tone, more akin to the first three volumes than A Feast for Crows.The characterization is head and shoulder above basically anything else on the market. At his best, Martin can do things with his characters that other authors can only dream of. And let me tell you that GRRM is in top form in this book! Understandably, the bulk of the novel is comprised of Jon, Tyrion, and Daenerys' POVs. This should please fans who have been clamoring for these characters for over a decade. And yet, the secondary POV sections, for me at least, are what gave the book most of its more memorable moments. Which is not to say that the "Big Three" did not deliver. But the supporting cast is responsible for quite a few surprises along the way.To a certain degree, A Dance With Dragons is Jon's book. Becoming Lord Commander's of the Night's Watch has forced Ned Stark's bastard son to mature quite rapidly. Winter might be coming to Westeros, but on the Wall it's almost there. It is up to Jon to prepare the North for the coming of the Others, and some of his decisions will not sit well with the rest of the Watch and everyone else. Duty appears to be a main theme in both Jon and Daenerys' storyline, with both protagonists following different roads as they attempt to deal with the hand they were dealt. Jon, though he is forced to make choices that might cost him his position and more, accepts the responsibility which has been trust upon him and puts into motion various schemes that will help the North face the menace posed by the coming of a long winter. In this, he is definitely Ned Stark's son, putting honor and duty before his own desires. The character growth is evident, showcasing a young man duty-bound to protect those serving under him and the innocents he has vowed to protect. The Wall may be crumbling, the various forts unmanned, Stannis and his Queen major pains in his side, yet Jon strives to remain true to himself and his oath.Daenerys, on the other hand, refuses to do what she must. She understands her duty, knows what needs to be done, but she is loath to give the order that will see blood spilled in the streets of Meereen. This came as a decidedly unpleasant surprise for me. Dany came a long way since we first saw her as a beautiful and innocent teenage girl in A Game of Thrones. I was expecting a woman grown in A Dance With Dragon, mother of dragons and rightful queen of Westeros, ready and willing to do what needed to be done so she could claim her birthright. Tempered by loss and war, I had expected Daenerys to have matured, to be a queen in deed as much as in name. Unfortunately, the ordeals have left her a frightened and ambivalent ruler, unwilling to pay the price to do what she has traveled across half the world to achieve. Beset by plotting and threats from every side, her narrative is filled with a girl dealing with moral dilemmas and refusing to act as a queen should. Disappointing, to say the least. Will she act before it's too late?Tyrion's arc offers the highest number of surprises. Though our favorite dwarf will always be his witty self, everything Tyrion has gone through in the last few months has left him a bit more thoughtful and humane. Still, his narrative will get a fair share of laughs and chuckles out of you. With a price on his head, Tyrion must find a way to reach Daenerys anonymously, not an easy feat for the Imp. But soon, he becomes privy to a closely guarded secret that will shake the world. It came as a shock to me that such an important story arc could make its appearance so late in the game. I guess that GRRM has many more surprises up his sleeve.As more than half of A Dance With Dragons runs in tandem with A Feast for Crows, the first 500 pages or so features a few Bran POV chapters. Nothing that offers any sort of resolution, of course, but his plotline moves forward, albeit not as much as most fans would like. There is a new POV character that plays an important role in this novel. However, since this is a spoiler-free review going up before the pub date, I will refrain from saying more. Suffice to say that this new POV offers new perspective on certain events, past and present, and is linked with a number of ongoing plotlines. Just when you believed that A Song of Ice and Fire couldn't get more convoluted, A Dance With Dragons raises the stakes even more. Secondary POVs include Davos and Reek, both of them meant to pave the way for what's taking place in the North. The same goes for Asha Greyjoy's POV.As A Dance With Dragons moves beyond the fourth volume in the timeline, the narrative returns to the Dornish storyline, which gathers momentum and rises to a new level. As if there wasn't enough politicking thus far, we soon realize that Prince Doran is not the feeble ruler many believe him to be. Victarion Greyjoy, Jaime, Cersei, and Arya all have POV chapters in the second portion of the book, but these chapters more or less set the stage for what will happen in The Winds of Winter. As I mentioned, the most interesting POV character in the latter part of the book is Ser Barristan Selmy. In addition, the mysterious and shocking storyline tied to Tyrion early on get its own POV character just before the end of the book, indicating that nothing will be the same in Westeros from here on out.For such a huge novel, the pace is seldom an issue. GRRM juggles quite a few balls simultaneously, tying up loose ends here and introducing unexpected plotlines there. So for the most part, the rhythm is fluid and the book is a page-turner. Only the Daenerys POV sections drag after a while, making me wonder why Martin bothered to write so many chapters devoted to her when sevral are just about her wondering what to do and refusing to do what she must. But other than that, this is a book that will keep you up past your bedtime for a few nights.What many might find off-putting is the fact that basically all the principal story arcs end with cliffhangers. And I'm talking about major cliffhangers here, especially that which caps off Jon's plotline. In a series that's had its fair share of startling scenes and moments, A Dance With Dragons has one that's right up there with the Red Wedding! Still, the absence of any sense of resolution might annoy some readers, given the fact that we are all aware that volume 6 will not be published next year.In the end, I feel that A Dance With Dragons is everything ASOIAF fans could have hoped for. It showcases a George R. R. Martin writing at the top of his game, moves the tale forward like no other installment to date. Those naysayers proclaiming that GRRM had lost his focus and the will to see this project through are proven wrong. Not only is this novel all that the others were, but GRRM raises the stakes to an even higher level then before. The lack of a true ending might irk some readers, sure, but A Dance With Dragons offers so much in terms of plot movement, revelations, and shocking moments that it doesn't truly matter a whole lot. And it sets the stage for an unbelievable The Winds of Winter.True, George R. R. Martin may be a slow writer. He likes to go to conventions. He loves football. He likes to edit anthologies and work on the Wild Cards books. True, he's busy working in tandem with the HBO team on the TV series. True, he most probably can't devote as much time as he'd like to finishing A Song of Ice and Fire. But you know what? If I must wait a few years to get a book of this quality, I say it's worth it. . .As most of you know, I won a football bet with George a while back. I lost our first two bets, sure, but that's got nothing to do with it! :P Anyway, my winning meant that he would base a character on me and then butcher him in a violent and bloody fashion. That was my only demand. I wanted a memorable death. Enter Ser Patrek of King's Mountain (a Montr&eacute;al reference, since we met at Worldcon in 2009). You may notice that the heraldry of Ser Patrek's House is pretty similar to the colors of the Dallas Cowboys. That's no coincidence. I was expecting George to create a very minor character based on me and then kill him off on the following page. But it was very nice of him to make me a knight of Queen Selyse's entourage, to make me appear in a few chapters so I could make an ass of myself, and to kill me (yes, quite violently!) in what is probably the most spoiler-filled chapter of the novel! It's the ultimate fanboy moment, to be immortalized in such a way. You'll see. It's a good death!Impossible to put down.Roll on The Winds of Winter!
3 This review will contain mild spoilers. You've been warned.This book was considerably better than A Feast for Crows.  It had characters many were looking forward to (Jon, Dany, and Tyrion), but the story did not move nearly as much as I expected it to and hoped it work.  The east (Mereen) has not moved forward much.  Dany is not much closer to Westeros and is perhaps farther from that.  Tyrion did not make it to Dany and the journey with Penny seemed to be irrelevant and boring.  Much of the planning in Dorne seemed all for naught (which isn't a problem, but I feel the book would have been better without Quentyn in it at all).On the plus side, Arya's and Samwell's sections were interesting but too few and far between.This series will not be finished in seven books unless the last two take place at a breakneck pace.
5 Ohhh Mr. Martin. You are a cad! I was not to be disappointed in the latest book of your series, but to wait so long for the sixth installment after that ending is deliciously cruel. After reading the 4 novel box set, this book easily kept me enraptured. A must read for all of those who still believe in Dragons and a good plot.
1 I loved the first 3 books, and got through each in about a week.  The 4th was not as good for reasons folks have already mentioned, but it still was readable despite some of my favorite characters being saved for book 5.After almost 1 month, I am only 1/3 through the book and despair of finishing it.  I have skipped some chunks that were most tedious, but even the chapters where my favorite characters (those few that have not been killed off or MIA), the story is not compelling.I guess these last 2 books are bridges for the next one, but good luck getting through this one.Maybe he is distracted by the HBO series, or HBO is influencing the story, but I fear I will have to put this book to rest after one last attempt.
2 I thoroughly enjoyed reading this series but as much as I enjoyed reading the other books I hated the ending in this book
4 As with all Martin's books this one was entirely too long. Maybe he should think about breaking it up into three novels, each covering the same time frame but different locations so as not to have to jump around so much
3 You know, once you get addicted..... I still love the panorama of the new worlds, but grieve the loss of so many great characters.  I am just hoping Book 6 will bring everything together in a way that makes it all worthwhile and uplifting.
3 I didn't think A DANCE WITH DRAGONS was as bad as the 1-star reviews suggest but at the same time I think I'd be hard put to argue with any of them. The book is highly unsatisfying after a 6-year wait, which itself followed a promise (or "devout hope") that the book would be published shortly (as in the following year) after A FEAST FOR CROWS, which itself was about setup, only for an almost entirely different set of characters. So any dangling plot threads from that book continue to dangle a the conclusion of ADWD. As for the dangling threads in ADWD, it's intriguing stuff, I admit, but when do we get to see them resolved? Who can say?Is the next book, THE WINDS OF WINTER, even a priority? I have my doubts.Consider the following taken from a post from Martin's blog:***Here's the stuff I am dealing with right now:-- reviewing pitch proposals and putting together the overplot for the new Wild Cards mosaic novel, LOWBALL,-- writing the first draft of my script for episode nine of season two of the HBO series GAME OF THRONES, "Blackwater," and damn, but this one is a bitch of an adaptation, the original author made the damn battle way too big and too expensive,-- working on a Nicholas van Rijn story for the Poul Anderson tribute anthology Gardner Dozois and Greg Bear are editing (an especially noisy monkey, since the deadline was today and the story is a long way from being done),-- getting back into THE WORLD OF ICE AND FIRE, the long-promised concordance I am doing with Elio and Linda, which is almost three years late at this point, and needs to be finished and delivered by year's end,-- roughing out the next Dunk and Egg novella, the next story in the queue after I finished the "Blackwater" script and the Poul Anderson story,-- planning for a long summer of travel: the visit to Poland and Slovenia, the book tour, San Diego comicon, worldcon in Reno, Bubonicon, and maybe another trip overseas in the fall for the HBO show, depending,-- working on a complete redesign of my website, much needed and long postponed,-- supervising and reviewing and approving materials for the games, the cards, the video games, the comic books, the replica swords, the miniatures, etc, etc.I am exhausted just typing about it.And behind all that, of course, lurks Son of Kong: the WINDS OF WINTER. ***Lurking BEHIND IT ALL is the WINDS OF WINTER. How can the author's most popular work be lurking behind it all? How can video games and websites take precedence over SONG OF ICE AND FIRE? I hope I'm wrong but I've also read somewhere that Martin doesn't intend to resume writing the next book until January. Might not all of this extracurricular stuff have been the reason for the long wait for ADWD? I couldn't say for sure, but I suspect that is the case. Is Martin's heart in it as much as seemed to be with the first three books? Not for me to say, but the list of things to do certainly is troubling.Anyway, I wanted to give this book 2 stars, but I am still interested in the story and reading its resolution (some day). I also thought the epilogue salvaged the book significantly, especially after the weak final chapter (Dany). So I'm giving it a grudging 3 stars instead.
5 I await the next with trepidation, as I will have to go without sleep for several days.  Fortunately, I can blame my lack of sleep on the children I will ignore while reading the book.... no, I won't ignore my children, but I will have some marathon sessions of reading.
3 The first three books were fantastic. You know why? Stuff happened. Now Martin is too lost in his own mythology. I used to worry if Martin would ever finish the series. Now I wonder if that might not be a good thing. I hope the series gets back on track and doesn't keep us waiting 5 years for another book where nothing happens. As it is, I'm starting to lose all faith in what started as a very promising series.
5 After I got hooked with the first book in this series I heard there is also an HBO series. I haven't watched it but definitely wanted to continue reading. A Dance With Dragons brings the characters together in a way that makes me anxious to continue with next book in the series....can't wait!
1 I pre-ordered ADWD and I repurchased and reread the first four books.ADWD SUCKS!!!!! AHHHHH! I WANT MY MONEY BACK!!! This book was SUCH a disappointment.Let's be clear, I enjoy Mr. Martins' writing style. His depth of character, wicked twists, breathtaking descriptions and a world that is unique and realistic.However, this particular book SUCKED BEYOND ALL THAT HAS EVER SUCKED BEFORE!!! I feel that this book is a stalling tactic for the HBO series to pull new fans into the series (AND the next two books) in order to make as much money as possible. I think Mr. Martin is fully aware of the suckyness of ADWD, and as a fan all I can do is SMDH. Shame on you Mr. Martin! It could still be good even if it was just a place holder!This book was a drag, a bunch of new characters I DO NOT CARE ABOUT (I have been trained by Mr. Martins previous 4 books not to care too much for any character as they may be killed off at the drop of a dime) I was bored with all the traveling here and sailing there and eating locusts and puppies and other nasty stuff, and still not tying up any conflicts, old or new, just creating more and more and more conflicts. Enough is enough. I first started the series 2001 and I am too through! I have also told all my friends and family who I bragged and bragged to about this series to that it is a big fat waste of time. I am selling my books to a newbie to the series. They won't know any better. SMDH.
5 I have to say that George RR Martin did a simply amazing job at making the impossible seem entirely plausible.  Bloody Islands made me believe in the power of medicine men, and Dance with Dragons makes me believe in the power to bring dragons to life.  Excellent writing and story.
5 I loved all the books in this series.  Now he has to write the next book so I'll know what happens to everyone.  The books are so much better than the TV show.
4 Not a whole lot happens in this vol but its still full of wonderful descriptions . words , phrases, events and experiences.Danerys really is kind of stupid/ naive, Bram may really be a tree and You Know nothing ,Jon Snow.
3 Took me a long time to get into this one because so many stories were going on I'd lose track of who was who. Eventually got into it and hope next one doesn't take long to arrive on Kindle.
5 The stories continue... Martin's complex world, characters and the interwoven story lines all conspire to keep the reader happily engaged. I was held captive by the reading experience.
1 Like so many people, I loved the first three books and read them quickly. I could accept that some of the characters that I had identified with were killed because the plot continued to engage me,This last book I struggled with - it seemed to spend all its time journeying to somewhere and did not have enough plot movement to engage me. The descriptions of a characters breakfast, the extent that they can piss, types of turtles can be accepted once but not repeatedly - I kept thinking that I had read all this before and so started skipping pages. I put the book down a third of the way through and after a week or two, forced myself to finish but was dissapointed. I had pre-ordered this book, I will not be reading the next.
5 Look, there are lots of jaded people leaving poopy reviews for A Dance with Dragons. That's their right. But George R.R. Martin has written five incredible books with some of the most engrossing, fascinating and despicable characters ever created. His villains are the vilest. His heros and heroines often get murdered. You grow to care about what happens next to a character and the character meets some foul end. Others persevere despite the fact they probably don't deserve to draw another breath.I strongly recommend you buy the whole series. You'll finish it and you'll care about the story. You'll care because it's a well crafted tale of magnificent scope and spellbinding detail. I have no idea what tool the guy is using to keep track of everything but that in and of itself must be a nightmare to manage. Martin must live in the dwarf's head and have a bird's eye view down into Cersei's oft exposed nether regions. This is certainly not The Hobbit. The Song of Ice and Fire contains a great deal of sexual content so it's for mature audiences although personally the slavery and constant murderous schemes should be more troubling than the lechery.Want engrossing characters? Got it. Want family feuds that end in mass murders and open war? Got it. Want undead zombie hordes threatening to overwhelm the realm? Got it! Martin has packed a little something in for everyone. If you like your high fantasy without any salubrious glossing over of the wretched realities of living under petty kings then A Song of Fire and Ice is a great series. Yes, Book Five fails to resolve many disputed issues. Yes, Book Five leaves the reader without a clear idea of who will rule in Westeros. That's fine, you'll want to buy Book Six. Worth every penny.
5 Cannot get much better than George R.R. Martin.  So detailed and unbelievably addictive.  A must read for anyone who hasn't watched the show yet.
5 I have seen a decent amount of reviews criticizing this book for not progressing the story fast enough. I have to say though I have enjoyed ADWD just as much as the previous books in the series. I am a little ticked that I have to wait 3 years to read the next book though... But that is just a testament to how well the series is written.
3 Seriously, whenever Martin runs out of ideas, another Stark must die. At least, that's how it seems, but since we likely wont know the outcome of that particular scenario within this book for the next 5 to 10 years while we wait for book six, i simply make this plea to G.M. while he writes, lol.Anyway, this was definitely better than a Feast for Crows, but was not on par with the first three books in my opinion. It feels like he waited too long to write this, and there was a bit of broken continuity, and a rush to resolve things. For example, he spends A LOT of time in Winterfell, but at the end, he glosses over what would seem to be some very important events by simply having a letter sent via crow basically detailing the situation. I think the time between books worked against MArtin.Anyway, there are more than a thousand reviews here already, but i just thought i would put my own take out there. It wasnt a horrible book, but it also didnt wow me. Since it is over 1000 pages, you would think it would be a bit more gripping. I dont know what has happened with the series, but it is dragging its feet right now.You're obviously going to read this book, but there isnt really any hurry, and for me at least, it was a three star area. Just okay.
4 I have this book on my iPad and have not completed reading it.  So far it continues the saga and having it on my iPad is a very convenient way to carry the book.
1 What started out as a seemingly great new epic fantasy more than 10 years ago now has become something akin to the Star Wars prequels. Just an unmitigated disaster. The series did have problems from the start but they were originally outweighed by the positives: GRR Martin's writing ability and his imagination. Sadly, slowly the problems have overcome anything that was once good about this story.The story has many different points of view that change, disappear, and reappear as the story churns ever on. There is plenty of smut and people can die in sudden twists (and then magically come back! yipee!). That is the same way a soap opera works. Grr Martin is a good writer though. By the middle of this book, Grr Martin's good writing is a dead horse and the soap opera has been beating it all night and all morning (imagine a morning that lasts several days - oh wow man). The horse is just basically a red smear on the ground. The Dany chapters literally vomit out a never ending list of bizarre names and forgettable characters. Does anyone truly feel like they know these characters beyond a sorta pikachu card like depth? While this list of characters scrolls through, instead of feeling as if this is part of some grand story we feel confined to a small and boring court. While on the other hand, every freaking meal is described in detail. The sex scenes are creepy smut from a man who is not experienced with women. Asha is so hollywood badgirrrl it makes me want to puke. What a boring and flat character. Not to mention completely useless. Some characters have shown some growth which is quite the feat for just a couple thousand pages! Sansa learned how to care about others and scheme. Oh but she disappeared a couple books ago I think... Oh well! Bring in the tough bad girrrls! Yeah, she's got a double bladed axe and knows how to use it! She acts like the women in Martin's favorite pornos! His dream come true. And talk about hollywood, how about the endless it's-a-small-world-after-all moments Tyrion has as he meets other characters by chance? And another 'did that character really die?' cliffhanger. Wow, really treading some new ground there. Maybe The Bold and The Beautiful is looking for new writers?Another battle of good vs evil within Grr Martin's story is between his colorful imagination and his stupid ideas. One of the original, oh-wow-man's was the seasons lasting several years. A year is really the time for one cycle through the seasons so this sorta inside out nonsensical idea where our year, which does not fit in this fantasy world, is applied to their passing of time is just kinda cross-eyed dumb and silly. But whatever, the way it affects the fantasy is interesting and the color of the imagined is more than the stupidity of the idea. But the ideas jumped the shark with the unsullied as has been pointed out by others. Super Darwin eunuch fighters that can't feel anything (sardaukar/spartan/janissaries smashed together sans manhoods plus numbness - just look at that and consider it). Wow, I dunno about you but I'm terrified. To be honest, I've always imagined these guys as comical so when the Sons of the Harpy get them... I. Don't. Care. But in this book, there aren't that many new ideas. Warging is when people can control animals and is explored more. I wonder where that is going? Hmmm. Tree humpers (aka greenseers) are very rare people that can hump trees and see the past. So kewl! What a climax to Bran's story! Like the Force coming from intracellular bacteria!Add to all this some thrown in lines from Monty Python's like "fart in your general direction" for good measure and you have a big time hit! Maybe Grr himself sees the whole series as a big stupid joke at this point? He doesn't really seem to care. Whatever, you'll buy it. Rated Arg for Pirate, f you.
5 I have just started reading this latest book in the series. Story amplifies events & characters introduced in the earlier books in the series.
4 It may have helped that I read many negative reviews, so my anticipation was low and my dread was high.  In this series, it is really hard to keep track of the multitude of characters.  It's a chore, really.  I am often confused.  Even so, I really enjoyed the book.  I don't mind the author's decision to use this book to catch up on the other leading characters that were left out of the previous one.  I look forward eagerly to the next installment.
5 The latest release from grrm in the continuing Fire and Ice series. Awesome storyline and the further developments of all the characters in the world of the Starks, Lannisters, Baratheons.Enjoy.
1 The first book in this series, the actual 'Game of Thrones', was incredibly interesting. It was a whole new world, with complex and well-developed characters. It was a world of wonder, of legend and of horror. Game of Thrones got me from its first page.Then came the second book. And I thought... Meh.Then the third book. MEH.The fourth book. "Oh Lord, I hope the fifth is better than this ****!".And the fifth book...A Dance with Dragons is one of the worst books I have EVER read in my life. More than a thousand pages long, and NOTHING happens. I really don't know what Martin was thinking when he decided to write this book.Okay, after the first book we already had clues that the series was not going anywhere, but one couldn't help but hope that such an incredible writer would be able to produce something good after so much time.Guess what? This book can't deliver.In fact, when I say that NOTHING HAPPENS in this book, I really mean it. The characters just wander around, CLEARLY filling pages. I don't know why would any editor publish this kind of work.I am probably not the only one, but I SHALL NOT buy the other two books, if they ever get released. This is simply one of the worst written works I've had the misfortune to read.Take this from a former fan: don't waste your money on this.
4 More and exciting time in the world of fire, ice, and intrigue!  New characters and old embroiled in fascinating combat!
4 I read the 5th book expecting for GRRM to start tying up some loose ends and at least begin to bring this story to an end.  Not so!  This book introduces even more characters and with so many laying around now, the entire army of characters each got their life's story moved forward about one inch.  At this rate, GRRM will have to write about 40 Ice and Fire books to bring this saga to a close.  I hope GRRM is taking good care of himself because unless he lives to be 110 or so, there is no way that he doesn't die before we find out which Stark is the last one standing....
5 I have to lay the blame on my 21 year old granddaughter who has been hooked on the books and the TV series since inception. She finally persuaded me to take interest by giving me the first book to read. It was all downhill from there - next I had to read book 2 and so on.As I write this review I am midway through book five, and horror, there are no more books finished.Seriously, the books are huge and take time to read, but very entertaining and no doubt will be something that I will return to over and over. All of the best books need repeated reading in order to capture the small things that are missed on the first time reading, and these books certainly fall into that category.You cannot read this book without reading all of the earlier books first, otherwise the intricate plot and characters will mean nothing.
5 Loved it and all the other books by George R R Martin. It is story that has so many fasinating characters.
5 I thought of this book as an improvement over A Feast for Crows and a return to form. On the downside I boggle that he is still adding new characters and how can he possibly live long enough to finish this series at the glacial pace at which he writes?
3 I was glued to every word of the first 3 books in the series. With Feast and Dance, I found myself rarely captivated.In fact, to make it through both of these books, I had to do the following in each chapter:1. Read the first few pages, until the author starts rambling. The rambling usually consists ofpainfully meticulous descriptions of places and food, long internal reveries of scenes fromthe prior books or lengthy introductions of new characters both minor and boring.2. Skip to the last paragraph in the chapter and capture what I need, as the plot inches sluggishly forward.I'm not accustomed to suffering through books in this way, especially when it comes to pleasure reading.If I find myself doing the same in the next book, I'm giving up the series sooner rather than later...
2 I was a big fan of the previous books but this is just a tedious, boring read. I found myself wishing for it to be over. Fans waited six years for this?
4 I've read the four previous books and liked them a lot. I had put off reading this one after reading some reviews that suggested it was slower than the previous. However, I found it quite enjoyable and couldn't put it down. However, My biggest complaint is the overwhelming number of characters and houses etc which make it difficult to keep track of who is what. So I found myself skimming sections that I didn't care about or details that I felt were too boring. But certain characters caught my interest and I wanted to see what would happen next. I am looking forward to the next installment.
5 I don't want to finish this...waiting for the next one!  My faves are back in this fifth book, and he never fails to entertain me and keep me surprised.
5 In this long awaited novel that runs in a partially parallel timeline to A Feast For Crows, the reader learns what has been going on with Jon Snow at the wall and Daenerys Targaryen and her dragons, as well as the whereabouts of Tyrion Lannister, who vanished after he murdered his father.  From there, the storyline rejoins the full cast of characters and continues on.For me, this was the best book since A Game of Thrones (which is still the best one).  I loved that Daenerys, Jon Snow, and Tyrion had many chapters, as I find them to be the most interesting characters (although I found Dany indecisive and a bit tedious in this novel).  The plots move forward a bit in each location, giving some hope that the story might actually conclude one day!  One complaint I have is that the cast of characters is growing so large it is hard to keep all the storylines straight, but once you just relax and get into the story, it is a fairly minor issue.  I am now joining the anxious hordes waiting for The Winds of Winter.
5 I loved this book!  It didn't hit on a lot of the main characters, except for Arya, but it filled in a lot of blanks.  It was a little disconcerting, going back wards in the timeline but you got used to it as you read.  This book is a great placeholder for the books to come and left me wanting more More MORE!!!
2 The premise of the series is great as are the first 4 books, but the 5th was a lot of redundancy with sparse dialogue and rambling descriptions of every meal, random character and environ. When I got to 85% and there was no resolution in sight, I was disappointed to say the least. It appears the author is milking this story for all it's worth. Way too many characters and even more seem to pop up at random. Too many twists to the point of chaos and the characters seem to be all over the planet. There is no sense of time passage or continuity to the flow of events. Also it seems that everyone`s dreams have to be included in the storyline at some point. I will probably read book 6 but if it's more off the same and doesn't end, I'm done.
2 After reading this latest book, I still have no idea what has happened to Sansa, Arya, Jamie or the various wolves.  I guess I will create my own ending.......In my conclusion, Jon Snow will recover and go on to save the Starks and reunite the remaining dire wolves.
3 I finally finished the book, and while I have to admit there are a few great television moments, my overa-all reaction is, "Meh".This book was slightly better than the last one, although I liked the last one a lot more on a second reading, but I agree with all the people who feel that Martin is dragging this out.  It would be easier to not worry about it were it not for the fact that it will be another fifteen years minimum before we finally get the finale.And whatever enjoyment I was getting from reading was frequently interrupted by my need to quell my rage over Martin's *constant* usage of the phrase, "much and more" or "little and less".  It is a cute phrase used once, but when it pops up every third paragraph, it gets seriously irritating.  It is a stupid and lazy literary quirk that Martin ought to fix.  And any editor worth his salt ought to have called him on it.  Of course it does not destroy the book.  The book is still quite enjoyable.I am getting a bit tired of Martin's shtick too.  Oh, look who just got stabbed.  Sigh.  I bet HE won't get resurrected a-la Dondarrion.The book is worth a read, but in the end it just made me sad.
3 This book is a bit confusing because its storyline is parallel to Book #4 A Feast for Crows. The book narrows down the storyline, supposedly, to focus on a handful of major characters. Unfortuantely, the number of minor characters once again grows and becomes an annoying distraction. (It really is a shame because I enjoy the overall storyline.)
4 I like it but it didn't resolve enough from previous books. There are too many characters to keep track of and too many details that bog down the reader. It's annoying.
4 Picking up were Martin left off we get the second half of the story as the north is covered in snow and the west with blood. Martin keeps you hooked
5 Loved it, was great. As always he is a wonderful story teller, and competely wraps you up in his imagations! His charactors are so believable and you become so ingrossed in the story its like you are really there. Love his work!
5 The books of The Game of Thrones series, the basis for the HBO show, are probably the finest book series I have ever read. Individually and together they form some of the greatest storytelling in the world. These are not to be missed books. If you are a fan of the series, then these books are a must read.
4 While I'm an avid fan of Game of Thrones, the fifth book A Dance with Dragons seemed to yield to the male reader more with some much detail in battles and wounds and male machinations that at times I found myself falling asleep reading.  I did enjoy the whole series and would urge anyone who had read one book to continue and read the complete series. No spoilers alerts but be prepared to learn a lot about battles and war mongering.
1 I have had this book for many months and simply cannot finish it.  I used to make it a point of honor to finish every book that I started and this one is more than I can do.  The first three books were great, hooked me on the story lines and characters and made me glad there was more to come.  I found the 4th (which I was able to just barely finish) and now this 5th in the series to be very disappointing.To call this author "The American Tolkien" is undeserved.  Both series are weighty, complex and deep, but Martin's has become simply shallow, repetitious, disjointed and boring.  It's a shame really because it started out with such promise. I don't believe it will stand the test of time like "The Hobbit" and "The Lord of the Rings" have done.I have enjoyed the first book's HBO adaption and am looking forward to next season.  However, just like with the books, I find I skim over (fast forward) the sex scenes which have become soft porn and frankly, boring.I won't buy the subsequent books (if they are ever published) hot off the presses like I have previously until I know they are worth the read.
3 I find myself terribly ambivalent about this book.  Martin has a clear writing style, has created a fascinating world and juggles the various plots, subplots and subsubplots admirably.  His characters are compelling and 3-dimensional.  At the same time... so what?  This series has become a death march (literally) as unlovely characters challenge and kill off each other.  Martin's willingness to kill off even beloved characters began as both shocking and refreshing, making the story unpredictable and realistic.  Now, however, as the body count mounts, it just seems to be a death slog.And for what?  What is the meaning of this series?  Or is this a book simply a cross between existential fatalism and the demands of the commercial publishing machine.  Have we actually learned anything about life, people or purpose?  Or will this become the circle of time -- a universe existing to continue existing?I hold out hope.  Seeing Jon Snow beginning to reflect the values of Eddard Stark (if you don't see where, just go back to the first volume, chapter 1) indicates that perhaps someone in the series seeks to rise above the gore.  I will eventually wade through this volume.  It will, however, be my last, whether or not the story finishes.
1 The first three books were great.  They moved and I couldn't put them down.  Book four was a disappointment, slow pace and not a thing about DT who was one of the most interesting characters.  "Dances With Dragons" is a disingenuous title...not much DT here either and not much about dragons either.  I had anticipated this book with high hopes only to be sorely disappointed and the only thing draggin' was the pace.  If the next one takes years I'm not sure I'll remember to read it.
3 A Dance with Dragons...obviously written by a very proficient author with no urge to get to the story. There is not a single climax in the entire book. There is building action with every chapter just to disappoint you when you find yourself back at the bottom of the mountain as the next chapter begins. Overall I was disappointed in George R.R. Martin for leaving us for several years without conclusion only to give us sufficient jockeying, politics, and character positioning to make Jordan and Tolkien's tales look like a haiku.Tighten up the story, throw in some crescendo on occasion, and please don't make us wait another 5 years for the sequel.
1 Why has this book been highly rated by national critics?The answer is because George RR Martin continues to astound us with his world building. And that is what critics love. They want a book immersed in the minute details, they want to be able to imagine themselves in the book. They want to smell the smells, eat the food, and watch the sights. And this book delivers that in droves. Add a dash of oppressiveness and this book becomes an instant classic amongst the criticatti.This is also precisely the reason I hate this book. There is too much detail, and this is not what I (as a fan) do not want to read. Is this a food guide or fantasy fiction? I would rather watch the Food Network than read about the excrutiating details of each meal. Is this a travelogue or fantasy fiction? I would rather buy Fromer's guide to Westeros than read about the boring nature of traveling from one place to the next where nothing (important) happens in between.As a result, we get hundreds of pages of filler. It delights the critics but it bores the heck out of me. I don't care where whores go nor do I care to read about urinating into rivers.Admittedly, the action picks up 75% into the book, and the last quarter of this book is actually readable. However, this means that 250 pages is actually fairly good and the remaining 700 pages could have been cut out without impacting the book.The saddest part of this is that we will need to wait another five years for "Gorge" RR Martin to write the next installment of the foods that he dreams about.As a huge fan of this series (hey, I have not only the board-game, but the expansion for it!), I'm sad to say that if this were book one, I would not have read book two.
5 I jumped into this series with both feet after season one of Game of Thrones ended.I really don't have much to say other than,if your a fan of the books,the show does an amazing job of adhering to the books.Its fun to watch and read along to see what the show does with the books from season to season.
5 I cannot wait for the next book. this has been an amaing story, the cliffhangers are amasing, Im expectin an epic 6th and 7th book. &#34;The Winter is Coming&#34;
1 Unaceptable. I can't cope with a digital edition more expensive then a printed one. As a matter of fact, digital editions should be 30-40% less than paperback.
2 ADWD "Awards":Most engaging chapters: TyrionMost events: JonMost satisfying story arc: Theon and Asha GreyjoyMost progression: BranMost confused, convoluted, complex: Dany / Quentyn / Selmy / Tyrion / VictarionMost boring: Dany and TyrionPointless: The Watcher & MelisandreUnsatisfying: Everything except the Greyjoys[....].Reason for my awards / review?  'Cause I'm opposite of impressed w/ ADWD. I was anticipating ASOS-material from the positive early reviews, but besides a couple of Tyrion chapters, I found this book yet another metaphorical chapter to a genre chock-full of bloated epic fantasy storytelling. I was expecting ASOS events, yet I was sadly disappointed by AFFC meanderings. Since this book parallels AFFC in many respects, I suppose it only fitting that the book suffers from similar failures in progress, resolution and satisfaction. I would like to put my official stamp of disapproval on this series which has deteriorated drastically from a stellar third book, A STORM OF SWORDS. In A STORM OF SWORDS, one shocking event after another seemed to move the book at a torrid pace. In A FEAST FOR CROWS and A DANCE WITH DRAGONS, I was hard pressed to find events, much less any movement to the novel. In spite of it all, this book fares better than A FEAST FOR CROWS... a lot better. Sadly, that's not saying much.Unlike its predecessors, even if we were to take AFFC and ADWD together, there exists so few resolutions to any existing plots that the two latest novels cannot possibly stand on their own. Unlike its predecessors, AFFC and ADWD feel like bridge novels; nothing is resolved in a satisfying manner and more questions and plot tangents arise instead. Unlike his first three novels, none of the story arcs in AFFC and ADWD (with the possible exception of the Greyjoy story arc) contained endings unto themselves and yet left the reader wanting more.1. A GAME OF THRONES AGOT (4 / 5)2. A CLASH OF KINGS ACOK (3 1/2 / 5)3. A STORM OF SWORDS ASOS (5 / 5)4. [...] AFFC (1 / 5)5. [...]A DANCE WITH DRAGONS[/url] ADWD (2 / 5)
1 It  took me 6 months to finish this book because it was so convoluted and boring. Seriously, GRRM, it took you 5 years to come up with this?Don't buy it, wait for the HBO series which will hopefully have diverged significantly from the books by then
4 I began this book thinking that the story was finally ending.  Instead, I am just left with more questions.  And now I find out that the next book may or may not be out by 2015?!?  I sincerely hope that the author is experiencing excellent health or has made arrangements for someone else to finish this series in case he meets an untimely end. I will be very put out if there is not some resolution to some of the plot lines and some well-deserved someupptances for certain characters.
1 I try not to write reviews of books I don&#8217;t like. I have before, but not often. However, I found George R.R. Martin&#8217;s &#8220;A Dance With Dragons&#8221; so disappointing and so irritating that I had to write something down. I can understand that perhaps part of my disappointment came from the fact that the &#8220;good guys&#8221; in his novels can&#8217;t buy a break: death, misery, bad luck, and stupidity simply plague them. But I get the feeling that the author is using the &#8220;shock factor&#8221; of this to sell novels, at the expense of writing a good story. At every turn the good guys (or maybe you could call them the best of the bad guys) either screw it up for themselves; the bad guys screw it up for them; or fate just appears to have it in for them.But what really gets me about this book is the story itself. Such potential after the first three novels, but so many words are wasted here and in A Feast of Crows. Paragraph after paragraph and page after page, they don&#8217;t add to the story or to the characters. They&#8217;re just words and more words, seemingly for the sake of drawing out an eventual climax. There&#8217;s dialogue that doesn&#8217;t matter and events that don&#8217;t add anything to the story or move it along. And to be clear: In the last two novels there are very few events at all, and certainly nothing approaching a climax.I&#8217;m extremely disappointed in the apparent way the battle with Stannis and the Boltens &#8220;appears&#8221; to have played out. (I say &#8220;appears&#8221; because with this author you just don&#8217;t know) But the event that I&#8217;d guess everyone reading this novel waited for with baited breath? We read nothing of it. What happened with Stannis and Winterfell is covered by about 50 words &#8211; IN A LETTER TO JON SNOW FROM RAMSEY BOLTEN?!?!?! Are you kidding me? This is horrendous storytelling! Such a slap in the face to readers.I&#8217;m guessing this is all an attempt to drag out an ending. Maybe for the purpose of selling books, maybe for the television folks at HBO. But regardless of how the final two novels of this series play out, A Feast of Crows and A Dance With Dragons could&#8217;ve been combined into one fairly short novel. Nothing happens for heaven&#8217;s sake.I&#8217;m sorry. I like the world of Westeros. I can even deal with the good guys losing sometimes. That&#8217;s life. But Mr. Martin tries too hard. Ned loses his head. Rob and Catelyn get sliced. Sansa abused. Bran crippled and wondering homeless in the north. No one seems to know where Rickon even is. And Arya? Misery from the first and besides, I don&#8217;t get her storyline at all. Now Jon. He doesn&#8217;t even have the Stark name, but gets the shaft (literally) just the same.Okay. I&#8217;ve said enough. The story here, in my humble opinion, sucks to high heaven. I&#8217;m offended by the author&#8217;s callous unconcern for me, his reader. Or I&#8217;m mad at myself for even reading. If I hadn&#8217;t enjoyed the first three novels in the series, I would&#8217;ve quit A Feast of Crows half way through and never would&#8217;ve moved on to A Dance With Dragons. Dragons, which by the way, spend the entire novel out of mind and out of sight. Oh, and did I mention there&#8217;s another Targaryin in the picture (not Daenerys, who we&#8217;ve followed for five books, but at least one &#8211; if not two &#8211; more, whom we were lead to believe were dead!).It&#8217;s unlikely I read the final two books in this series. And I will be terminating my Sunday evening viewing of HBO&#8217;s Game of Thrones. I know where it&#8217;s going and I don&#8217;t like it. However, the lack of actual action and events in the books should make it easier for the TV series to cover everything. After all, nothing is really happening that we need to see to know where things are going!(SPOILER) Here&#8217;s how bad it is: Even the good Uncle Kevan Lannister appears to bite the dust, a victim to Mr. Martin&#8217;s need to put killing ahead of storytelling. One good thing about all of the good guys dying and probably the only reason I would even consider coming back for the last two books: soon the author will have to start killing bad guys! There&#8217;s hardly anyone else left!A Feast of Crows and A Dance With Dragons: Two of the worst books I&#8217;ve ever read, and many wasted hours of my life I&#8217;ll never get back.Goodbye Westeros. So long Song of Fire and Ice!
4 I could not put it down, yet wondered why.  After reading his first four books I learned not to to get invested in characters. Martin's way of creating surprises seems to be to kill off  characters at a brisk pace.  The world he has created is diverse and difficult to follow at times.  Perhaps. because this book run parallel with the previous  book it seemed as if the author is cleaning up loose ends as times.Over all, if you liked the first four books, you'll like this one.
2 This latest installment does not live up to the previous books.  Although there are some interesting parts, another reviewer got it pretty much on the mark--1000 pages of not much happening.  I have read all of the other books in the series and they are all spectacular, but this book falls completely flat.  Not sure what is going on here, how could there be a difference between this book and the others in the series?  Did GRRM run out of any new ideas for the series and is just now writing just for the money.  Unfortunately, I have seen this before.....writers of epic fantasies sometimes just keep the series going for too long.  It has been a long time since I was this bored reading, not sure I will get the next installment.
1 Like many I came to this series when HBO premiered A Game of Thrones.I'm disappointed for 2 reasons:1. I bought this book for $14.95 for my Kindle (I thought I'd save money with a Kindle, you know?).2. This book ENDED WHERE IT SHOULD HAVE BEGUN!I will not read GRRM anymore, cuz he ain't getting anymore of my time nor hard earned money....
2 As one of GRRM's first and diehard fans,I have recommended this series far and wide, even going so far to tell people the wait was worth it, which was harder after Feast, but I pressed doggedly on. Now, with a week's worth of sore wrists and neck (maybe the Kindle really is a good idea), I'm sadly disappointed. I have a vision of the HBO producers sitting around a table drinking heavily and wondering what they're going to do should they make it to Season 4, contemplating hemlock, hitmen and making a deal with the screenwriters.I won't go into many details, everyone has already done a masterful job of that, great reviews, but the main points are worth repeating: characters left out, characters cliffhanging, characters introduced that end in pointless wanderings, characters that we care about pointlessly wandering (Brienne, Jaime, Rickon, Catelynn, Arya, Bran??), hundreds of pages wasted on sailing, marching,and food. The sturdy rope that held this series together is unraveling so fast and has so many loose ends it's as if a Westerosi wind knocked over GRRM's box of index cards and he has them hopelessly mixed up. Oh, and editing...if I never hear "I'm just a young girl who doesn't know the ways of the world" again I'll die happy. More like, "I'm just a young girl who wandered through 959 pages and forgot what she was doing" describes our once-vibrant Dany.The real frosting on this soggy cake was GRRM's Acknowledgement at the end - he thanked everybody he could think of except the people he should've thanked: his loyal and long-suffering readers who've made him what he is. George, take a page from Stephen King - he never fails to think of us, he's gracious, thoughtful and kind. After the slog through this tome, you blew it big time with that lack of courtesy, pal. I deserved some of that acknowledgement and so did everyone else.
5 I really enjoyed this most recent book in the Game of Thrones series.  If you have not read any of the book you will have to start with the first and you will be in for an awesome reading experience.
5 Martin is a true master. His stories keep you spellbound, with all of the twist and turns, and the subplots. It is very difficult to put his books down. Anyone who enjoys historical fantasy will loves this book!
4 Unsurprisingly given that this is merely the companion to book 4 rather than the successor - this book continues to build tension as we approach the battle for Meereen across the Narrow Sea and the battle for mankind in the North with the battle for Winterfell in the mix as well!  Given the complexity of the gritty world that Martin has created the engaged reader will look for foreshadowing of what is to come.  Does Melisandre give Jon the breath of life?  Does Brown Ben Plumm take Tyrion to Daenerys so that she learns more of her dragons?  Does Daenerys return to Meereen on Drogon leading a Dothraki horde?Mr. Martin has created a vast area of possibilities that will make the reader frustrated and annoyed that he/she cannot dive into Book Six and see where these threads come together.  The journey has been a long one for those use to instant gratification and those who come later will never appreciate the power the author has invoked over his readership but this series must rank as one of the truly epic fantasies ever written.
5 On Audible. When all power goes out like in the TV series Revolution, I will still have five great books to keep me company.
4 Story does not need to end. Hard to put these books down. wish there was less sexual content because would be a great read otherwise for teenage boys
1 Martin's work has always wallowed in depression and darkness, but his storytelling ability always kept me turning the pages. With "A Dance of Dragons" he has finally jumped the shark. Here the story bogs down in a surfeit of obscure names and places and endless minutiae while maintaining the usual level of degradation and perversion. I'm beginning to realize that there won't be a satisfying (let alone "happy") ending to this series. Why wade through thousands more pages of this mind-numbing Bataan death march when you know it will simply involve more innocents being raped, tortured, and murdered in nasty ways? Why continue to read about characters you hate after all the characters you might actually care about have been whacked? Sorry, but my masochism has its limits. Life is too short. Screw you George. I'm done.
2 While GRRM's talent is still apparent in the writing style the plot is gone.  You'll feel like you're treading water within his world when you've become accustomed to swift pace in books 1-3.  The biggest tragedy is that the meandering handling of the characters.  You won't look forward to seeing a name pop up at the top of a chapter like before.  In fact you'll likely dread some.  By midway through I began to hope this book was just a vessel to finally kill off Daenerys.  That hope wasn't enough to justify reading the second half...The book feels like those albums that musicians put out to get out of their label contracts.
4 As I begin reading A Dance with Dragons (ADWD) from here forward, a few quick impressions are offered. These thoughts are definitely not limited to ADWD, because I'm reading the new book within the context of the first four novels, which I started re-reading when I knew the HBO series was to begin.Someone once said, &#34;Context is king,&#34; and in the case of George R.R. Martin's epic, this is especially true. A reader could find value in any single book of course, but I am compelled to view ADWD as a physical volume holding only part of a body of content; think of 5 or more computer hard drives containing one very detailed story.Martin's content (story) must be seen as somewhat non-linear. This will make some readers uncomfortable, while others will delight in, or enjoy, or at least tolerate the non-linear style.The longer the length of the content, perhaps the better a somewhat jumpy or distemporal style serves. I, for one, find GRRM's leaps and bounds, which are mostly character-based, not a problem evev though they require a bit of work on the part of the reader.Having written that I must hasten tob thank Mr Martin for not using &#34;nuncle&#34; endless times; and it is my hope that his nearly neurotic need to put the words sentinel and soldier next to virtually every mention of pine trees will come to an end now and forever! (Search for yourself if you need this point validated.)Repeating phrases is not sin and I only poke fun lightly, dear sir.Some of the rather predictable spellings, alliteration in character names/titles, and the still rather odd (to my ear, anyway) usages, such as &#34;arse&#34; for ass, are cultural or just the little tics of a great and weathered nuncle storyteller. I honestly believe that George Martin is doing astounding work, in scope at least far beyond Tolkien.ADWD has some burps and stumbles, and my Lord, what else could be expected? This serves to make both story and writer all the more human, and the reader, perhaps, more human too, if human is rightly related to humus, humility.HBO cannot do the story justice, though they do try. And if Tyrion were my brother I would call myself blessed. And if Cerci or Lysa or most of the female characters were my kin, I'd walk the earth shamefaced. I'd dye my beard blue.
3 I thought this would be the final volume but it seems it's going to stretch on forever which wouldn't be bad if the readers didn't have to wait forever for Winds of Winter and a Dream of Spring. Hopefully the HBO cash will push him into a more productive mode.
2 I'll be quick about this.  Is it a fun read?  In some ways, yes.  On a page-by-page basis, Martin is as good an author as you're likely to ever find in this genre.HOWEVER.  Books, and this may be even more true for long serial stories, need a cohesive structure that allows the storyline to develop, to grow, and then to eventually reach climax and resolution.  It's very similar to music composition.  Readers can only absorb so many plot threads and deepening complexities and left turns into new sub-plots before the work becomes a tiresome mess.  Martin has crossed that line.He may be able to salvage this series, but it will mean getting back on track and starting to bring the critical plot threads together into some semblance of a cohesive story arc that builds momentum towards a finish.  And it doesn't matter to me how many books that takes.  But this reader will not be purchasing another in this series without some assurance that Martin is willing and capable of delivering the goods.
2 I finally got through the last book. I've been reading a couple chapters before sleep every night. They've been like mini character portraits. Enjoyable, but most don't seem to have anything do with the other chapters. I feel a little empty, despite the one thousand pages. I've been left hanging--far too many loose ends, and no real climactic finish.There are already some great two-star reviews here that capture how I feel about this book (and the fourth one.) Disappointed, mostly. I began to notice a lot of repetitive prose ("must needs," "nipples on a breastplate," etc.) and that's a sign to me that the actual story wasn't really holding my interest.Why doesn't George outline his stories better? He could have ended both Feast for Crows and this book on climactic scenes if he had. And trimmed out the bloat. He badly needs an editor.
4 I enjoyed reading this volume and appreciate the level of detail GRRM is putting into his story.  This book is a good holiday read as it is easy to read in bite sized pieces.
2 Apologists for the sadism that pervades this series say that its purpose is to upend the myth of the courtly ideal, showing us the vicious collateral consequences for the silent majority of unceasing wars for power.  If this were actually the author's goal, one would expect the silent majority to play more than a bit role in this morality tale: there might be some tears shed, for example, for the two miller's sons whose heads are chopped off as a ruse to substitute for the two aristocratic children, Bran and Rickon.  But no: those nameless children are only archetypes, not real people with whom we might empathize.  Running counter to the apologists is the author's underlying reactionary idea that there is something special and unique about the "blood of kings."  Some genetic difference between kings and lords on the one hand and the peasants on the other cause the entire population (other than the wildlings) as well as the author to obsess about legitimacy and bloodlines.  The fact that this is "real" in the author's mind is evident from the fact that Daenerys, with the "blood of the dragon" running in her princess veins, is the only one who can hatch and tame dragons; and the Stark children, with the "blood of the First Men" in their veins, are among the very few who can enter into the minds of other beings and take on their perspectives.  Moreover, it is only a sacrifice from the "blood of kings" that can appease the red god and bring forth demons to do his bidding.So, what is the justification for the cannibalism, the voyeurism, the sadistic tortures, the tongues ripped out, the skin flayed, the hands, fingers and toes cut off, the eyes gouged out, the burnings alive, the hangings, the beheadings, the slit throats, the cheeks bit off, and on and on?  I submit that the author gets some frisson of pleasure from these and he knows full well how to play to the baser instincts of his audience.  Why are we allowing this author to play to our worst instincts in this way?  And why aren't we asking why?Beyond the sadism is the clear and pervasive misogyny of the series.  The author is obsessed with whores, and as the series has progressed he seems to have multiplied his references to prostitutes and whorehouses so that there is a reference practically every page in the fifth book.  The author further denigrates women by having even the heroic characters patronizingly refer to any woman as a "sweetling," as if their only purpose is to present themselves as a sweet thing to men, an irritating trope that occurs hundreds of times.  The women characters themselves fall into three stereotyped categories:  the evil, the dumb, and the ones who manage to figure out how to behave like men, and it's only the third category who carry any real interest.This series is obviously immensely popular, but consider whether it is so in part because of an appeal to our worst instincts, and to our most reactionary views about some natural and hereditary aristocracy.  These sorts of ideas, when unquestioned, tend to have an insidious effect on the way we think.  It's especially concerning to see these books showing up again and again on teens' "favorite series" lists.
5 This is a much better book and a much better series than plenty of other stuff out there. It is gripping, you feel for the characters, and you really enjoy the ride. I couldn't put it down. That being said, it is true that he takes to long to write them and that it is horrible to fear that he may not finish the series. It is also true that there are no great break-throughs in Book 5.
2 So far there is no dancing going on. All the characters have become ones with no brain and not a thought before the stupidity. I have this book on kindle and have fast forwarded chapter after chapter. He writes about characters that I could give a flying flip for and only writes a little about whom I would think was the main characters. What is sad it has ruined the series on HBO for me as well. Why kill off so many of the main characters? Who cares what color every single person is wearing, or every detail of all their ancestors? It's liking reading history books in school except I paid for the book. Man and all the very detailed facts of the tortures. I wont be buying anymore of the books in this series, what would the point be? I think he got high and kinda wondered off.
4 Well written, involving and complex history which is of a fantastical nature but nevertheless engrossing.  Do not expect the usual outcomes or resolution.  This may make it hard to read at times but more like reality than not.
5 I promised myself I would not review anything that already had more than 100 reviews; only a megalomaniac would bother throwing his two cents into an overflowing piggy bank.  But I am writing this review, and I justify it but trying to address those who are considering reading SOIAF:1. But you haven't read any of the books, and you want to know if it is worth starting.2. You enjoyed HBO's Game of Thrones, and want to know if the books are as exciting.I think you should.  A Dance with Dragons is the 5th book of a planned 7 book series. As such, it is part of the middle chapters of the saga.  Frodo will not be casting the Ring into Mount Doom in this book.  A Song of Ice and Fire succeeds, for me, because of the individual chapters and characters. Yes, I want to know what comes next, but, unlike some other multi-volume works, I am not reading the books to know the solution to the mystery. I read it for the journey. Dante would still be worth reading even if he had never finished "Paradiso". This isn't Dante, but it is a well told story.Dance with Dragons concentrates on the storylines dropped from A Feast for Crows: Dany,Tyrion and Jon Snow.  The latter part of the book picks up where the last volume left off and adds chapters for Cersei and Jaime.  Other characters get their voices, including Bran, Arya, Asha Greyjoy, and some new perspectives as well.Much of the Seven Kingdoms is in ruin, and winter really is coming at last. A sense of strained resources fills the book, and many of the criticized references to food are references to how little food is left. Those lords who have not been hurt by the war become disproportionately powerful, allowing some secondary families to become important players.Much of the book explores the wisdom of our familiar characters in unfamilar situations: will Tyrion's wits save him, now that he is no longer a rich Imp? Can Jon Snow succeed as the Commander of the Night's Watch in times more perilous than any commander has known in half a hundred generations? Now that Dany really has a throne, can she keep it? Does she want to? These questions are all addressed in this book.The remainder of the review may contain some spoilers. Be warned.Martin's writing is fresh as ever. I found some chapters of Feast for Crows uninteresting, but ADWD held my attention throughout. That said, I did get tired of Dany saying, "If I look back, I am lost" every time she made a poor decision.  Jon Snow tells himself , "You know nothing, Jon Snow" as he makes one intelligent choice after another. "Words are wind" you tell yourself after a while. Tyrion ,Jon, and Dany all act rashly: in Dany's case, more often than not. Bran finds his destiny, and so, perhaps, does Arya.The scope of the book expands: we travel down the Rhoyne, spend time in Volantis and get to know more about the cities of Slaver's Bay.Enjoyment of any book is subjective, and far be it from me to disagree with anyone else's view, but a lot of the criticism seems to fall into one of several categories:1. I don't want to wait for the end; give it to me now.2. I want to see the last battle. I got burned by Robert Jordan, and it won't happen again.3 This story is simply too long. I'm interested in (insert favorite character here) and the rest is a waste of time.4. Everybody else is trashing it, and I don't want to seem out of step.5. My favorite characters do stupid things and it annoys me.I am sympathetic to all of these complaints. I've had twinges of 3 (length), bits of 2(Dragons fight NOW, please), and a severe bout of 5 (Khaleesi cannot make up her mind, it is known). But I think the book survives all of these criticisms. I also believe that this book and the last were necessary to set the characters up for the final conflicts. I expect the next book (may we see it in our lifetimes)to get better reviews.
1 Bore me once, shame on you; bore me twice, I'm an idiot.  I refuse to (a) pay the exorbitant eBook price for "Dragons", (b) get sucker punched again by hundreds and hundreds of pages of blathering meandering exercises in how-long-can-I-stretch-out-nothing-whatsoever-happening, and (c) waste precious and non-refundable hours of my life stuck in a book written by an author who has utterly lost his passion for his own story AND any respect for his clamoring fans. He doesn't care about shortchanging his readers, I certainly don't care to fork over money to help him do so.
5 As with any series like this, you either like it or you don't.  I find it very addictive, particularly because there are so many characters for which George R.R. Martin has fleshed out different personalities and interactions.  If you try to figure out where things are going, you will usually be wrong.I've been reading this during chemo treatments. I find that it really helps with the mental aspect of dealing with cancer.
5 This book is great! I would recommend it to anyone. I thoroughly enjoyed it, and it was so hard to put down.
5 This book seems to have gotten the same negative reviews as Feast for Crows, and I don't really know why.  I thought it was great!  It wasn't quite as awesome as the first couple books, but it still had me not wanting to put it down.  Yes, there were a ton of cliffhangers and the book didn't end really resolved on anything - but we should be used to that, it's just his writing style.  I agree with some of the people that there were a couple chapters that should have been left for the next book (mainly Cersei and Jamie) because they didn't really add anything to this story, but that doesn't make it a bad book.  It was exciting, a lot happened, and it isn't always what was expected.  Some new character perspectives, like Barristan, Asha, Melisandre, and Quentyn, added to the variety and it was nice to see things from some new perspectives.  I enjoyed reading this book and while I don't look forward to the wait for the next book, I am excited for the book itself.
4 I enjoyed these books, three and four lagged a bit to me but the pace picks up again in book five.  Really book one is the best.  Not great literature for sure but entertaining and something to do at 3am when you can't sleep.  If you enjoy dragons, tree spirits, and little people well spiced with some graphic violence and a bit of sexy stuff you will probably like this series.
1 I must confess that I really enjoyed the first three books of this series. I was disappointed with this book as well as its predecessor. They were mostly filler and history lessons. I kept reading this book because I was attached to Snow (The only main character with a sense of honor). After I finished it I regretted deeply the hours of my life that were wasted on book that didn't deserve them. This book feels more like a horror flick: crude and pointless violence with no depth.
1 ...then read something great like War and Peace.This is worse than a steaming pile of you know what - it is a long steaming pile of you know what.  The smell stays with you long after you've finished it.Like others have said, I loved the first 3 books.  Then, AFFC was terrible.  I didn't know if anything else could be quite as bad, but now this might be even worse.I'm done with the series.  There are a million great books out there waiting to be read.
4 Please, Mr. Martin,  Finish this series!!!!!  Serious cliff-hangers after 800 pages of reading are just pure torture.Can't wait for the next one!
4 I have run quickly through all five books - and like other readers had hoped that there would be some progression to an end. But no.  So many points of view now (IMHO).  I sense that the author is working harder and harder to get through each successive book and may not yet have sight of what the ending should be, unlike JK Rowling who evidently wrote out all the outlines for all the Harry Potter books before she started. Despite this, the author turns a great tale and wraps you up in it. Have to admire how he tracsk all the POVs, locales and players.
5 This book brings together many story lines and progresses them. The ending is great. Might be my favorite in the series so far, it is a toss up with the third book. Only problem I have with it is when I finished I wanted to read the next one. I cannot wait for the sixth book to come out.
3 A Dance with Dragons (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 5)I bought this book (kindle edition) because I read the previous 4 books and I wanted to find out how the story progresses. Given all the loose ends, I suspect the author will publish several more books before he will deem necessary to present us with the conclusion of this epic soap opera. Overall, I found this book less enjoyable than the previous ones. At times the pace of the narrative slows to a crawl and the author seems to take a questionable pleasure in his detailed glorification of total human degradation.  Some of the characters tend to become increasingly inconsistent (for example, Jamie Lannister seems to discover some latent sense of honor), the Ironmen appear increasingly like a time dislocated version of the Viking raiders and Braavos looks like a mixture of Venice and the ancient Greek port of Rhodes where the Colossus straddling its entrance has now become a gigantic statue named after deities of the Greek mythology (i.e. the Titans).  I missed the part where Greek mythology was taught in the Free Cities but I keep wandering why the author went through the trouble of creating such imaginative new geography (obviously the planet this story takes place is not our good old Earth) but kept the same moon (which scientists tell us is an anomaly in our solar system).  However, I will not question the ability of the Wall to stand for thousands of years in the same place and not becoming a moving glacier, (especially when it goes up and down hills) because I know the answer: it is the embedded magic.  Finally I was disappointed with the change of the very likable and assertive character of Daenerys into a woman who thinks more with what she has between her legs than between her ears.
4 So in-depth. Loved and hated that there were so many characters and so many points of view. I was left with a sense of excitement, anticipation, and mistrust on so many levels. I hope the next book makes it all worth it.
5 I read this book with great enthusiasm.  A great ending to a great series but so sad to see it end. Another amazing author.
3 Yes, it's overly long and descriptive and doesn't look like it can possibly wrapped any time soon. But I saw those flaws in the first three books as well, and it already seemed to me in Sword of Storms that Martin was just piling up events but not actually heading toward fixing or resolving some of the events (even though that book was better written in general). So I had lowered expectations for this book. I liked several of the storylines (Jon, Theon, Bran, Asha) even though I agree with the general sentiment that half of it could have been chopped off.
1 We, Your loving and concerned fans, want the good stuff back! Give us the good old action packed "song of ice and fire" we so loved and got addicted to for the first 3 installment!Are you Robert Jordan, Master of BORE, Or the acclaimed GRR Martin, creator of worlds, master of intrigue, emperor of suspense?If you read most of the reviews here you'll find all the reviewers say the same things -  a very very long book, with almost no plot.Boring. Tedious. superfluous. Are those the words you want to be associated with your creation?What started out as one of the most thrilling, exiting, and enjoyable fantasy series, took a dive down, leaving millions of fans bitterly disappointed. We  want to be able to read on and see what happens. lead us through this epic tale you created, make us again love and hate, cry and lough, and read with wonder what magnificent and thrilling adventures are installed for your characters. Do not let it end this way.Make "Feast for crows" and "Dance of dragons"  just a bad dream you woke from, and write us the book we are waiting for.Join me in telling  Mr. Martin to deliver the goods: Do not buy this book. Nothing much happens there, you are not missing out.If you must read it - borrow it from a library or from someone who waisted his money already.  Resist the urge to buy, I know it is difficult sometimes - but it will serve a good cause. Maybe if the sales of this book will be considerably lower, Mr. Martin will understand that he has let down his fans, and that he needs to give them the terrific sixth installment they are waiting for.I am not a crazed fun. I can go on with my life with or without the 7 kingdoms, but a decent sequel and a worthy ENDING would be nice, too.I mean - I love an epic saga, but how long can it go? Don't the devoted readers deserve a closure?  It appears to me that Mr. Martin does not seem to think so. Maybe he does not have a clue as how to end it, or maybe he thinks we are walking, talking ATM machines.If he does intend to end it, with the brilliance and magic he knows to weave, let it happen now. If this is the best he can do - Why would you give him your money? How can a book this disappointing, that has made so may people give up entirely on the series, be on the best sellers list?I have posted this exact same review/protest for GRRM's "Feast for crows". In my opinion - these two books are basically the same long, endless,  less than mediocre book, That should not have been written.  The two were just too thick to bind together and I guess that making the readers pay for two bad books instead of just one appealed to Mr. Martin and his publisher.
2 I have read books two through five and without a doubt this book is the worst of the series.Dany T. become a confused teenage girl after leading successful victories in "A Storm of Swords" it is like her character regressed. Again, though I don't think Martin understands women, like many male authors when writing to develop a female character in depth he fails.Tyrion actually is subdued and boring through out the entire book. The active and wise character of the first three books become very boring in this book, but toward the end you can see the old Tyrion working to become a player in "The Game of Thrones."Jon Snow actually becomes so interesting, I actually went back and read his parts I skipped over in "Clash of Kings" and "Stomr of Swords" very good in fact the best part of the book. Yes we all are wondering what will become of him, but if I know Martin when one hero falls, another rises.I am anxiously awaiting what happens with Jaime, Brienne, Arya, Victorian Greyjoy, and Queen Cersei.  I think after the Epilogue which by far is the best and most amazing part of the book, all chaos is going to break loose in the very said but very cathartic "Winds of Winter."Overall the book lacks any good flow, it seems chalky and it is his worst written book of the series. The language isn't there the beauty of the first four books isn't there and I doubt he finishes this series. I think his passion may be gone for it, and he doesn't seem to be the type to finish just to finish  .  we shall never know what became of Westeros . .  we can only imagine and that to me is the greatness of Martin.
1 I began to feel about halfway through the third book that this series had gotten away from GRRM - he'd killed off most of the interesting and sympathetic characters and didn't know what to do with the ones who were left. The fourth book was bad and this one is just terrible. A boring, painful slog through a meandering plot, endless details, and tangential stories about random characters, most of whom are either new to the book or so un-memorable they might as well be. I'm imagining our author laughing hysterically about having written as bad a book as he could and still selling it. That's the only explanation I can come up with.
5 I have read the first 4 books of this series.  Each o ne is fantastic and this one is no exception.  Each of the many characters is written about and personalities are shown.  I have watched 2 seasons of Game of Thrones on HBO and although they omit a lot it is fun to see what they will do with this 5th book.
1 Way too long, and only 100 pages worth of good stuff happens. It was a waste of time to read this...
