4 This novel gave me a keen insight into the personal level of the politics & power during Henry VIII's kingdom.
5 I'm so sorry I didn't read this earlier. I could not get into her previous historical novel about the French Revolution (A Place of Greater Safety) and so was sceptical about this one. Wrong, wrong, wrong. I admit it. Her writing is wonderful and the story of Henry VIII's minister Thomas Cromwell moves along at a fast clip for all of it's 600 pages. So don't try this on your Kindle, or when you have only 15 minutes to start it. It needs a chunk of time if you can find it, and then you'll be hooked.The inly thing that bothered me to the point of slowing me up at the beginning was that Mantel uses the preposition 'he' to mean Cromwell as well as many other people. SO often it's not clear who has actually said, thought or done something. My advice? Forget it and go with the flow. It began to dawn on me eventually that this device was a way of showing that everything in the book was about Cromwell and his point of view. If you're a writer, don't try this at home. You have to be H. Mantel to get away with it. :)
5 This is an exceptionally good historical novel.Thomas Cromwell is an historical character I only knew about in very general terms, but this book, which is very well researched, fleshes him out in all his complexity. How someone rose from such humble beginnings to be Henry VIII's right hand man is amazing, but Hilary Mantel shows how his attention to detail gradually made him indispensible. The story of Anne Boleyn's ascendancy is covered in more detail than I have come across before. The complexities of the Reformation and how people made adjustments (or not, as in the case of Sir Thomas More, for example) are dealt with intelligently. It is unusual to find an historical novel which is both so readable and so convincing of its accuracy.I am not usually inclined to read Man Booker Award winners, but this is an exception!
1 One of the most opaque, worst-written highly praised books you'll ever come across.  The European nobilty of the era was probably one of the worst collections of mass murdering killer apes ever to descend from the trees, but I digress.
1 This author's writing stinks. Her prose stinks.  Her narrative moments stink.  Her dialogue stinks. The book has nothing to praise. It is written like some exotic ritual that does not even attempt to engage the reader. A shame, because this is supposed to be an historical novel about a fascinating era of English history.  Cromwell would be embarrassed to know that someone had written about him with such carelessness.  This is a project for Diana Gabaldon. Mantel simply cannot get anything to hang together, let alone convey ideas or tell a story.
1 I read large, complicated historical novels (e.g. Gabaldon).  This smaller historical novel is scores of historical snippets with no flow, theme, pattern, etc.  It is written as things are happening right now, which is yucky.  "He" is Cromwell, but you don't figure that out until several chapters in.  I found myself flipping through the chapter until I located an actual name, and then reading backwards so I knew who she was writing about.  I told myself:  "This book was well received by the public, maybe it's just me."  No.  It's not just me.  Poor writing style and no story equals frustration.  Read the Outlander series, something by Jack Whyte, or Hugo.  Come to think of it,just about anything else would be better than this book.
1 Incredibly hard to follow. In one scene both Cromwell and More are talking but you can't distinguish which Thomas said what. This happens in scene after scene.  The story jumps around and like many others, I gave up.
5 Mantel superimposes a modern sensibility onto an historical novel by using the present tense, letting the characters speak in clipped sentences, and giving her hero self-mocking insight.  If you can accept it as new approach to an old genre, and you're already familiar with this episode in British history (as many are), this is your next Tudor fix. I enjoyed this fresh look at Cromwell himself, too, who's usually portrayed as a man made up of ambition alone. (The Showtime series is a welcome exception, but that's TV, and this is a *novel.*)
5 This is one of the most amazing books I have ever read. Loved loved loved loved loved it. This will help you - every time she says "he" it means Cromwell. It's almost always Cromwell. She brings everything about this story to life. You can feel the sweat on the old stone walls. And there are moments that are truly heartbreaking. It is a remarkable accomplishment and a must read.
5 This is a monster novel - 650 pages. But it is a wonderful read. This is a novel about Thomas Cromwell set mostly in the period 1527-1535. Cromwell was in the service of Cardinal Wolsey when Wolsey was the senior advisor to Henry VIII. Wolsey fell from favor and eventually died on his way to trial and Cromwell became a trusted advisor to Henry rising to the position of Secretary - master minding Henry's desires. Cromwell was lawyer. The novel begins with Cromwell's childhood - the hard life he lived - the running a way from home - the independence desire to survive - but it soon moves into his life as a married man in the service of Wolsey. Mantel makes it clear that Cromwell was a reformer - owning a copy of Tyndales New Testament - a book outlawed at that time in England. She also creates wonderful moments between Cromwell and Thomas More whom she paints as an eccentric - often shabbily dressed, but also as a champion for the mother church. Historically this is a very accurate novel - fictionally, it is very clever. The dialogue is swift and sometimes complex, not knowing if you are reading the characters thoughts or actual conversation with someone. However, Mantel draws you into the story as she develops the characters. She never makes Cromwell a hero - is he good, bad, amoral? You find yourself feeling strongly for him when he loses his wife and child to the sweating sickness, but she also draws out his ruthlessness in his pursuit to do Henry's will. The novel ends mid-way through Cromwell's career. He is still in power at the end and she does not tackle his downfall. If you love historical fiction then this is a must read.
4 I'd put off reading "Wolf Hall" for a couple of years because given that it won the Man Booker Prize, I just *knew* it would be ponderous and over-written, and I suspected I'd find historical and continuity errors that would annoy a high-school European history student.I was wrong. This was fantastic. Mantel's first few words crackled, and I immediately was drawn into her characterization of the striving Cromwell, whom I've always found something of a mystery when reading about that era.This is well worth the read. On the strength of "Wolf Hall," I'll definitely get to "Bring Up the Bodies" sooner rather than later.
1 The storyline for this one isn't bad, but I wasn't a fan of the writing style. The author almost always refers to the main character as "he", which then gets very confusing when a third person is also referred to as "he". There were a number of sections in the book that I needed to immediately reread because I couldn't follow the story as a result. I'm an avid reader, so normally in situations like this it just takes me a few chapters or so to get used to the writing story. At half way through the book it was still driving me crazy. This is the first book I have ever given up on, but I admit I did. I stopped reading it about half way through and doubt I will ever pick it up again. The writing style wasn't for me.
2 Too disjointed ... difficult to follow.  I enjoy this period of history, know quite a bit about it but found the author didn't reference her subjects to a past name or action.
4 One of my favorite genres is historical fiction but the Tudor reign is not my absolute favorite time or place to immerse myself (Southern Europe, Egypt, House of Este, Borgias, Cleopatra, etc, is where I like most to linger). Even so, I have to say that this was a very engaging read. There's no need to rehash the main players here but I did find the take on the Thomases fairly addictive & fascinating. I must admit that like others, I had to get used to the "he" pronoun in the narration. I've not come across that device much (maybe I've seen it once before) but certainly not in so long a work. Once I got it, I felt it was a more personal way of existing with Thomas & it worked for me. I was really taken with the story & once I got about 60% in, I ended up reading all night to finish. I'll have to read "Bringing Up the Bodies" & won't leave it as long as I did this one.
2 This book got rave reviews in the NY Times and did win the National Book Prize one year.I have read several books about Anne Boleyn and her machinations with Henry VIII and this is just another one. It does come from another opinion, but I found the prose draggy and the characters confusing as to who was who and which side anyone was on.I was looking forward to reading the second book also, but I am glad I didn't buy it.
4 Took a while to get used to the style of writing. Often wasn't sure who was speaking at first, but once I got into it, I enjoyed it, and have bought Bringing up the Bodies as well.  Always interested by historical novels - gives you an insight into a certain period in history in an engaging way. Telling the story from Thomas Cromwell's perspective was an interesting variation, given so many books about this period.
4 It takes a bit of time to become relaxed with the unusual style but a brilliant &#34;oeuvre&#34; on the history of Thomas Cromwell and the complicated court life in Tudor times.
3 I love historical novels and have read several books on the Tudors and Henry the VIII's period. The story of this book, the research and the characters are very good or rather excellent but the syntax, grammar, and structure of the book are terrible. What a pity, because in the hands of a better writer it would be magnificent, it could be a five star book. I really wanted to read the sequel "Bring out the bodies" but after reading the sample on my Kindle, I decided "enough with her bad syntax and bad usage of pronouns".
1 I agree with other reviewers:  This is boring and confusing.  The author overuses &#34;he&#34; to the point that I could not follow the dialogue without a map!  I hate to not finish a book but I just have to with this one.  Life is too short....
3 Very long story.  Interesting in spots and tedious in others.  Interesting history but way to much conversation and details.  The author did a great job in the conversational aspect of the language at the time.
5 I don't know how historically accurate this is but it was very interesting and sheds a different light on the character.
4 Wolf Hall is a remarkable novel that should be on any book lover's reading list.Most of us have at least some familiarity with the story of Henry VIII's quest for a male heir and with the names of the major players who surrounded him. We may be less familiar with the political background and the court intrigues and the theological questions that threw the royal court of England into turmoil. Hilary Mantel brings the period to life with astonishing skill.We see everything through the point of view of Thomas Cromwell, who rises from blacksmith's son to Cardinal Wolsey's right-hand man to Master Secretary to the king. Cromwell has often been portrayed as the evil opponent of Sir Thomas More, who's seen as the principled martyr. But Mantel breathes life into all the major players here and shows them to us as complex people dealing with the storms and vagaries of the times. Cromwell is ruthless, yes, but he is also decent and pragmatic and loyal. He sees being useful to first the cardinal and then the king as his path to rising in the world. More is a man of great faith, but he is also entirely merciless to anyone he sees as a heretic. Henry needs a male heir, not just for his own justification or proof of manliness, but also because the Tudor dynasty is still new and fragile and anything but secure, and because England is threatened by the French and the Spanish, whose emperor is Katherine's nephew. Henry wants what he wants, but he also wants to play by the rules and not endanger his immortal soul. All this complexity Mantel pulls off with great plausibility.Mantel has her characters speak naturally, with only the occasional archaic usage to remind us that we're in the 16th Century, and the strategy works well. Her characters seem authentic, rather than creatures of some foreign era.The story is told in present tense, presumably to convey immediacy. I generally find present-tense novels annoying, but I got used to it in Wolf Hall because pretty much everything else was so well done. The one thing I never did quite get used to is her often confusing reference to Cromwell as simply "he," even in sentences where there are other "he's." Or he will be "he, Cromwell," which kind of makes me grind my teeth and want to shriek. But it wasn't bothersome enough to make me put the book down.Taken as a whole, Wolf Hall is a brilliant work that immerses us in a world I was reluctant to leave at the end. Fortunately, Bring Up the Bodies carries the story on, and a third book is in the works.
2 Sad to say, I have to agree with all the other reviewers who were disappointed in Wolf Hall.To begin with the story doesn't even get to that locale until the end of the book.Since I'm a very stubborn person I am determined to finish the book, but can surely sympathize with he reviewers who could not finish it.I also love historical fiction and as a devoted reader of that genre expect a modicum of historical accuracy from the author. I was surprised that no bibliography was provided.Since Cromwell is the "hero" of the story, someone had to be a villain. The author chose Thomas More. Odd choice, I have to admit, but I'd like to see her assertions backed up by serious research. If not, I'd have to say she had an animosity agains More and the Catholics of the era he represents. Surely, they were not angels, but More's depiction is perculiarly vicious and one sided. It is at complete variance with other books of the era I have read.
1 I slogged through this feeling stupid. So many good reviews but the story is obscured by pronouns and all the intrigue happens outside the pages. You only get the backroom snideness here.  Then I realized - if I had gone to English schools I would have learned all "the facts" and characters there, so this book MIGHT seem lively if you have that kind of background.  Which I don't.  Tiresome.
3 Chose this book because I love the subject matter, and because it was recommended by a friend.  Was undaunted by the length until I realized 604 pages were suddenly becoming 1208 pages.  Terribly disjointed with puzzling little snippets of events.  Thomas Cromwell, Thomas Wolsey, Thomas More, Thomas Boleyn, Thomas Wyatt, Thomas Cranmer, Thomas Avery, Thomas Wriothesley, Thomas Audley,  et al.  Instead of identify the parties speaking by last names, the author has elected to use pronouns -- he or him - or just Tom - you have no idea who is speaking to whom; constantly having to reread several pages to figure out who is saying what to whom, in what context, etc.First half of the book just plods along.  Picks up a little once Henry and Anne finally wed, but by then you're exhausted.Expected to love this book, but ultimately found it very disappointing.  Reading fiction even &#34;historical&#34; fiction, should be entertaining.  If you're really interested in Cromwell's life, read a non-fictional account.  It will be more satisfying.
1 Mantel describes a scene for a few paragraphs, ends on some moody ominous statement, leaves a blank space, and then jumps into the next scene.  This happens thousands of times.  There's no narrative flow, there's no forward motion, there's no explanation or background; there are just ominous pauses and descriptions of the weather.The book is told in the present tense, which is irritating and illogical.The only reason I had any idea what was going on in this book is that I majored in Tudor history.  Why in heaven's name has Mantel gone to the trouble of learning this much about the Tudors simply to write these scattered, moody little set-pieces that will probably leave most readers baffled?
5 A number of reviews of this book have been pretty negative - the readers cannot get into the author's use of language and point of view.  Well, the book is definitely not a Steve Berry or David Baldacci easy reading bit of nonsense.  First off, the author uses what is known as "close third person" to narrate the story.  In other words, it is written as third person, but so close to Thomas Cromwell that it can seem to be first person.  I was quite a ways into it before I suddenly asked myself, is this a first person story or a third person story and checked to make sure.  I have never read a book that was so "close third person" as this one.  It is pretty amazing how she did this.  Second, the author's language is spare, with little use of adverbs and adjectives.  And yet, the images that I got when reading it were impressionistic - not sharply defined.  Also, a pretty amazing accomplishment.  Finally, the author put a spin on Thomas Cromwell that is different from how history has typically viewed him.  I appreciated that different viewpoint.This book is not for everyone.  You need to appreciate good writing and not be looking for a junk food read.
5 WOW!!! This book deserves only superlatives. It's one of the most fascinating books I've ever read, and the author's style is superb. There's not a wasted sentence or a trite one. Every line conveys information, but conveys it in such a way that the reader never gets a single whiff of archival dust. The subject is about as unpromising a man as could be imagined: Thomas Cromwell, notorious as King Henry VIII's confidant and ruthless enforcer (until the wheel of fortune turned and Cromwell, in his turn, fell from power and under the executioner's axe--but that's far in the future and not a part of this book.)It helps to have at least a sketchy picture of the Tudor era in mind when reading the book; otherwise the title doesn't make any sense. The novel is set during the time of Henry's divorce from Katharine of Aragon and his marriage to Anne Boleyn. It ends with England's break with the Roman Catholic Church, the execution of Sir Thomas More and Henry's growing dissatisfaction with Anne, due to her failure to produce a male heir. Jane Seymour is a minor character and her family home, Wolf Hall, is mentioned from time to time including, significantly, in the novel's final sentence. Jane is presented as a meek, mousy little thing, a timorous and unambitious court lady whom Cromwell himself (a widower) has some thoughts of marrying. But if you know the sequence of King Henry's wives (divorced, beheaded died; divorced, beheaded, survived), you know what Anne Boleyn's fate will be, and that Henry's third wife will be Jane Seymour. That's why when the novel ends, Henry is on his way to Wolf Hall.I can see how some readers would be put off by Mantel's habit of referring to Cromwell as "he" so repeatedly; sometimes it IS difficult to know who is talking. But by reading carefully and occasionally going back to re-read a conversation (which it didn't bother me to do), it's always possible to figure out who is speaking. Plus, after a while, you become familiar with Cromwell's personal voice, his keen powers of observation, and his dry wit. You don't love Cromwell by the novel's end, but you can't help having some respect for this shrewd, versatile self-made man.
2 Since WOLF HALL won the Man-Booker prize, I resolved to read it despite my misgivings. Brussel Sprouts, Castor Oil, lima beans--they are good for me too and more enjoyable than this amalgamation of turgid prose and self-consciously dense writing. Despite having an M.A., in history and a good deal of exposure to the Tudors, I still found WOLF HALL to be a total snooze. Dynamic characters like Thomas Moore, Henry VIII, and of course Thomas Cromwell lost their luster in this novel. I suspect that many people read it to appear erudite or trendy. They are welcome to it.
5 "Wolf Hall" is a fabulous novel!  The Tudor period of English history comes breathtakingly alive with the sounds, the colors, the textures and smells of 16th century London and its environs.Ms Mantel has ingeniously chosen one of the period's most maligned characters, Thomas Cromwell, to carry the considerable weight of her novel, and he does so brilliantly!  Instead of the villainous opponent to the "saintly" Thomas More, Cromwell becomes a recognizably modern man, neither villain nor saint, but rather flesh and blood and incredibly politically astute. His story IS the story of England's push from feudal tribalism to international power. And that story has never been more vividly laid out than in the pages of "Wolf Hall."The author has spoken of being a frustrated playwrite, and her talent is sparkling on every page, every scene, every crackling bit of dialogue.  The reader can hear the soft swish of silk rustling down a hallway, the sizzle of rain on deserted London streets, smell the fragrance of flowers crushed beneath boots.  Even the most obscure of Mantel's characters spring from the dusty pages of history to full-blown life in paragraph after paragraph.  One cares about these people, so long dead now.  It's almost as though we forget that we already know what happens in the end!When I initially looked at the heft of this book, I thought it would take me a month to get through it.  Not so...the pages turned by themselves!  And at the end, as I considered More's execution and the next horizon confronting Cromwell and his king, I was hungry for more information...that is the best indication that the so often derided "historical novel" (aka "bodice ripper," "romance novel," Danielle Steele-athon) has accomplished its greatest feat.  I cannot wait for the sequel to "Wolf Hall!"
5 A caveat - this book is not for everyone. If you have little background of the major events that happen in this story, if you only know the love story of Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn without context, if you only know Thomas More and Thomas Cromwell from the excellent movie Man for all Seasons, you may well not be able to fully get the magnitude of this novel.  It does require background knowledge, and due to its interesting but at times maddening narration, may find it an almost impossible to read. But if you are interested in the time period and actors, and have an open mind to see More as possibly a cruel intolerant killer of men he calls heretics, or Cromwell as a man who might indeed be if not a saint certainly, but as a man who at least sees reason and reality, then you are in for a treat.Mantel has created a story from the events and people of history with incredible talent for language.  Her way of phrasing is witty and often moving, and her characters, whether you agree with her take on them historicly or not, are well drawn, complex human beings.  And at over 600 pages, was a book I couldn't put down - a page turner that kept me reading well into the night.  My only complaints is that at times I wasn't sure who was talking to who (tho I got better at this as time went on), and that it was hard to keep in my head which charcter belonged to which dukedom.  But those are minor to the scope of this book, and if you love historic fiction and good literature, try this book. I suspect it will surprise you.
4 Whenever I'm in New York I like to visit the Frick Museum, where Holbein's portraits of Thomas More and Thomas Cromwell hang on either side of a fireplace. There's no doubt that the portraits favor More - Cromwell's expression is closed and suspicious, if not outright malevolent. So Mantel's choice of Cromwell as her protagonist is an interesting, even daring approach. She even makes the portrait part of the story.But I wonder what the sequel will bring. Mantel introduces us to Cromwell's virtues - his kindness to the poor, his love of his wife and daughters, the quick intelligence that makes him so valuable to the Court. And she also shows us More through Cromwell's eyes, as a hypocrite who is condescending and unkind to his wife, and overly concerned with his reputation.But Mantel uses Wolf Hall as a symbol of evil, homo homini lupus. Only after he succeeds in bringing More to the block is Cromwell ready for Wolf Hall. Perhaps she is taking Cromwell's side only to deepen our understanding of his descent into evil. I do not think the sympathetic Cromwell who mourns his dead wife and daughters is the same Cromwell we see at the end of the novel.
2 I eagerly anticipated reading this book, and looked forward to purchasing and indulging in the sequel considering the awards this book received. However, when I got into this book, the fantasy of reading it was far better. I found that it was confusing on who was talking and what was happening, jumped days with no introductions so you are wondering how did this happened and found it long and drawn out.  I actually got to a point of dreading to pick it up to finish reading. I will not purchase the sequel. It did not &#34;draw me in&#34; and I was ecstatic to have finished it. I believe I am not comfortable with this writing style and it didn't work for me.
4 I read this book as a book club member.  I have read a number of titles set in Tudor times, or about the succession of English kings and queens.  I wasn't keen to read this, assuming it would be just another of these, but I found I appreciated the different perspective of this novel.  It follows Cromwell's rise to being the invaluable right hand man of the Cardinal.  It is a commentary on the fickleness of power and who's &#34;in or out,&#34; with resulting consequences.  What was most interesting to me were the intimate conversations between Cromwell his loved ones, his cohorts, and his adversaries.
5 This book is a staggering piece of work, and a great promise of the two future volumes to complete its tragic arc.The genius of the book is in its characters.  Mantel breathes as much humanity into them as Tolstoy does for his own characters.  Thomas Cromwell, her protagonist, harnesses his native intelligence and cunning with a protean drive--but it is also vanity, malice, and a touch of greed that helps fuel his ambition.  Henry More, his principle antagonist, is fleshed out with similar vividness.  A mortal sense of urgency pulses through every page, from their first innocent encounter, through More's conviction and execution.  Despite Cromwell's deft management of the prosecution, he passionately seeks to avert its ultimate conclusion.The quest for a male heir to the throne of the mercurial Henry VIII, and his relationship with his calculating  consort, Anne Boleyn--almost as much a pawn as she is a player--is the framework of the plot.But the theme of the book is the relationships between fathers and sons.  The story opens with a savage attack on Cromwell by his own brutish father.  This is contrasted with the nurturing approach that Cromwell takes with his own natural son--as well as other young males that come into his household.  All this is juxtaposed with Henry's failure to produce a son--that is, a legitimate one.Mantel's prose is generally sparse; for the most part, she lets her characters paint the scenery.  (she does, however, have a keen eye for costume and jewelry)  She spends most of her effort in showing us the workings of their minds.  Her dialog is rich in wit and irony--in this, she is the equal of Melville.  If she lapses into postmodernism, it is a gentle nuance, and gives us greater access to her cast--particularly the women.I eagerly await the promised sequels to this book.
1 Like other people, I had heard how wonderful and award-winning this best seller was. Also, I have a thing for the Tudor time period, so I was very excited to finally get a copy of Wolf Hall. While I haven't been confused (yet) as to which character is talking, I find myself not really caring at all who is talking or what's going on. The story is simply not grabbing me. I've made it through two chapters and part of the third and I'm close to just giving up. I'm not saying it's awful dreck, I'm saying it's boring as watching paint dry, which is amazing considering all the real-life drama, passion, intrigue, and betrayal that was going on during this era. How could you write a boring story about the Tudors?? Somehow Mantel did it.
5 Hilary Mantel's Wolf Hall is a fantastic piece of historical fiction.  The book chronicles an often covered period in English history--the rise of Anne Boleyn and the court of Henry VIII.  But instead of rehashing history from Anne or Henry's perspective, Mantel approaches the period from the perspective of Thomas Cromwell, the often maligned man at Henry's right hand.  Through Cromwell's eyes--he is a commoner--Mantel gives us a whole new perspective on court life, 16th century England, and most importantly Cromwell himself, who is typically portrayed as a villain.I really enjoyed this book. I will admit, it took me a while to get into, a good while to read--it's so rich and dense I found, like good chocolate, I could only savor it bits at a time!--but in the end it was fantastic and I was ready for more.  I hope Mantel does a sequel.  It was fascinating to read about these events from such a different perspective.If you're an English history or historical fiction buff, this is a must read!  You will appreciate the time and care Mantel put into composing this wonderful piece of fiction!
1 This book took me so long to finish.  And if I didn't have to read it for the book club that I belong to, I would have put it down way before the end.
1 I only read 1 chapter of this book and knew that I did not like the author's style of writing. Quickly gave up reading it.
4 I think she started out to write a novel for English history enthusiasts and then this great entertaining character came to life and took over.  By the end, this Thomas Cromwell seems like a combination of James Bond and Tony Soprano.  There is nothing this character cannot do expertly.  That sort of hero is kind of fun to get in step with.  As this character emerges, the book becomes more enjoyable.  In the first part, the action is just too dark.  She is assuming her readers already know the whole story and are familiar with all of these characters.  Once you start to get on Cromwell's side a coherent narrative thread develops.
5 Not the easiest read in the world but I had a hard time putting it down. The writing is superb.if you like historical fiction you will probably love this book. Ready to move on to book two
5 It is as if they can smell the devil's spit; they are almost jostling each other to get into the air, which is mild, damp: a faint scent of leaves, a green-gold, rustling light. He can see that, in the years ahead, treason will take new and various forms. When the last treason act was made, no one could circulate their words in a printed book or bill, because printed books were not thought of. He feels a moment of jealousy toward the dead, to those who served kings in slower times than these; nowadays the products of some bought or poisoned brain can be disseminated through Europe in a month.This is Thomas Cromwell, chief minister to King Henry VIII of England, thinking about the current trial of a demented woman, who claims to hear the voice of God, for heresy and treason. The penalty is death by fire. Cromwell tries, but fails to save her.Hilary Mantel's Wolf Hall sets you down in early 16th century England, among the entourage - within the very household - of Cromwell as he threads a perilous path between loyal service to his discredited mentor, Cardinal Wolsey to the inner circle of the King.Her style is intimate. After some initial confusion as to who is speaking, Mantel eventually draws you inside Cromwell's head, so that you begin to recognize his voice, almost as if he were whispering in your ear. We have no way of knowing how close she has come to giving us a defining picture of the man, but she has given us a defining picture of someone who, given the times in which he lived and the information available to him, and what we know of this particular man, is as close as we are likely to come. Thomas Cromwell, in Ms. Mantel's hands, is interesting. And that's the highest praise I can give anyone.Wolf Hall traces Cromwell life through the death of Sir Thomas More. It is the first novel of a projected trilogy. I have just picked up the second of these, Bring Up the Bodies (Wolf Hall) . I can't wait to rejoin the entourage. I just hope I get out alive.
4 Initial review:  I was very much looking forward to this book, especially after reading reviews elsewhere.  So I jumped right in and. . . .THUD.This book is very hard work to read, and when I pick up a work of fiction I am not anticipating a chore.  I am more than familiar with this period in history.  I even lived in Cromwell's home town of Putney for a while.  I've read everything I could get my hands on in regard to this period since I was a pup.Imagine my dismay, then, to find I had to read and reread sentence after sentence.  Martel's language is like being in a revolving door that is spinning too fast - I think I'm entering the book only to find myself spit out again.  Martel is in love with being clever at the expense of clarity, and I am not impressed.Reading this book requires a huge effort for no discernable reward.  It's an effort I'm not willing to make.  Fifty pages in, I decided to mow the lawn.****Today - I could have written a whole new review, but I want my fickleness to be a matter of public record.  I went back to this book, since I had nothing else to read, and forced my way past the pronoun issue and the initially-bizarre writing style.  It actually took very little effort to get into the book, and the book is really very good.I can see how a person who didn't know the players or the time period might be confused, but is there really any excuse for not knowing about Tudor England?  I was soon drawn in to the very interesting mind of Thomas Cromwell, who has always seemed like a fascinating person.  Martel knows this man inside and out, and she portrays him exquisitely.After reading this book I went out and bought the sequel, which is just as good.  I am looking forward to the next book in the series.  I wonder what Martel will make of Anne of Cleves and Catherine Howard.I still see absolutely no need for the pronoun thing.  It is an awkward, artificial device that serves no useful purpose.  Not content to refer to Cromwell as "he" throughout, Martel ends up writing thinks like "He, Cromwell, said. . . "  Her choice here is inexplicable, but it's a minor thing overall.So stick with it.  It's worth it.
5 Hilary Mantel's historical novel pulls you in at page one and does not loosen it's grip.  The plot puts you squarely in the shoes of Thomas Cromwell, and the era come alive through his eyes as he survives and thrives in the most uncertain of times. The court and courtiers of Henry VIII are as real as the people in your neighborhood or workplace. You will not soon forget them.  I hated to see this novel end, and immediately bought the Kindle version of the sequel, Bring Up the Bodies.  Having devoured that one, I now wait impatiently for the third novel in the series to be published.
5 I was originally hesitant to pick up "Wolf Hall" the 2009 novel by Hilary Mantel about Thomas Cromwell, power broker during the age of Henry VIII. 604 pages about medieval English politics? But I was coming up on a long overseas trip and decided to dive in.And I'm so happy that I did. "Wolf Hall" is a masterpiece of historical fiction and Mantel is a truly gifted writer. In her hands the byzantine politics and back stabbing of the court of Henry VIII become suspenseful, the London of the 1520's becomes real, and Thomas Cromwell emerges as a powerful and mysterious hero. The plot is well known - King Henry the VIII, frustrated by his lack of a male heir, wants to divorce his wife. The pope, the Catholic Church, most of Europe, and a large percentage of the English population oppose him. Henry turns to Cromwell, a financial wizard/wordsmith/master strategist, to get the marriage annulled so he can marry Anne Boleyn. To do so Cromwell must maneuver and manipulate the nobles, the bishops, and the formidable Joseph McCarthy of the day, Thomas More, who sees heretics around every corner. As Cromwell works the readers observes how power can be obtained, bartered, and built up over time - and how the power of a monarchy can obfuscate a man's reason.Mantel's best gift, I think, is her brevity. Strange to say for a 604 page book, but she chooses precisely the right sentences. She can use only a few words and still powerfully evoke a sense of place and time. In a single sentence or description you will feel like you know a character. A few examples:In describing a character's tenacity: "Inveterate scrappers. Wolves snapping over a carcass. Lions fighting over Christians." In describing a character overcoming a disappointment: "It was like watching Lazarus get up." Threatening a rumor-mongering rival: "Let's say I will rip your life apart. Me and my banker friends. How can he explain to him? The world is not run from where he thinks. Not from his border fortress, not even from Whitehall. The world is run from Antwerp, from Florence, from places he has never imagined; from Lisbon, from where the ships with sails of silk drift west and are burned up in the sun. Not from castle walls, but from countinghouses, not by the call of the bugle but by the click of the abacus, not by the grate and click of the mechanism of the gun but by the scrape of the pen on the page of the promissory note that pays for the gun.."Throughout the course of the whole book, through all the twisted back alleys of Tudorian politics, my attention never wandered. This precise writing translates into an ability to be effortlessly interesting. The dialogue crackles. You know how if you get in an argument with someone at the super market on the car ride home you think of all the best lines you should have said? That's how her characters always talk: the inventive quips, the brilliant descriptors, the whole truth laid bare.Kudos to Mantel for forming such a great character in Thomas Cromwell. It's incredibly hard to develop a hero - and so much more interesting in my mind - that is reserved, calculating, and brutally efficient. Explosive anger or unreserved hedonism is easier to describe. The restraint, the strength of Cromwell....it's incredible. On top of that, I personally love watching someone who is good at their job. I love watching Don Draper deliver ad pitches, Hakeem Olajuwon torment post defenders, and watching Cromwell deliver speeches and dismember (politically) his opponents.As mentioned by many other, Mantel frequently uses the pronoun "he" without referring directly to a character beforehand. The reader soon grasps that the "he" in question is always Cromwell, but it does take some getting used to.  I will also say that it is useful to use a book mark as the cast of characters at the beginning of the book was quite helpful. Also get used to Dukes being referred to alternatively as their title and their name, which even in the Shakespearean sense is annoying to me.But those are small caveats. "Wolf Hall" is a triumph and well deserving of it's many awards. It leaves you gripped to centuries old politics, viewing history through a different lens, and seeing power the way Cromwell sees it: "There's a feeling of power in reserve, a power that drives right through the bone, like the shiver you sense in the shaft of an ax when you take it into your hand. You can strike, or you can not strike, and if you choose to hold back the blow, you can still feel inside you the resonance of the omitted thing." Cromwell thinks the way Mantel writes: strength in caution, power in reserve.
5 There are many things to love about Wolf Hall, including Mantel's ability to evoke the aura of inevitable disaster that looms above everything that Henry VIII does.  But what I appreciated most about this novel was its determination to fit me firmly into the 16th century.  I felt I knew intimately a time when plague had power; when religion was ideology; when fortunes rose and fell on the whim of kings and courtiers. Thomas Crowmell wields influence because he knows how kitchens work and dresses get made.  His practical knowledge lets him insinuate himself into every debate and decision.  But as his star rises in the court, we also wonder why he pursues such heights, what draws him toward the flickering flame of Henry's egotism.  Poetic and worth rereading.
2 This could have been an interesting book but it had way to many characters and too many settings. I think you had to have a very strong knowledge of English history to get involved
5 There's no doubt about it: "Wolf Hall" is the best book I've read in the last two years hands down, and one of the best books I've ever read period.Hilary Mantel's novel is much more than award winner. Here is a historical fiction book that breaks from the growing trend of romance-style historical novels, going for the gut with an intelligent, clever and very well researched novel about Thomas Cromwell. Cromwell is best known from the unflattering portrayal in the play/movie "A Man for All Seasons", but as Mantel shows us in her excellent novel, he's much more than a manipulative man. By Mantel's pen, he is a living, breathing man - disliked by many around him for his all-too sharp mind and his clever games, he's a wonderful character to get to know. Whether we see him as a hurting child or as a tortured, grieving adult, his emotions, his impressions, his behaviors leap off the page and into the reader's mind.Setting aside Cromwell's fascinating character for a moment, let us examine the period of time Mantel chose to display. We know all too much about Henry VIII and his wives - too many poorly written and badly characterized historical fiction accounts have almost ruined this era for readers. But Mantel is sly. Her characters are crude, her portrait of Tudor England lively and realistic. There's little fantastic magic in her world, but blunt reality. People gossip and curse. People lie and cheat. Henry VIII is neither vilified nor exalted - he's just a full-of-himself king with one kick-[...] advisor.And then there's Mantel's writing. Almost every page had some wonderfully witty, clever comment, some piece of dialogue that jumped out at me and made me laugh. Her writing is brilliant - complex yet light and flowing, without the weight one might expect from so long a book either. The dialogue is snappy, the character development intelligent and well-researched and the overall world-building realistic and natural.Overall, "Wolf Hall" really is a wonderful, excellent and truly brilliant novel. Readers of all genres can find what to love and enjoy here, whether it's the intelligent historical fiction or the fun dialogue or the all-around interesting story and dramatic developments. One of the best books I've ever read.Most recommended - read it now!
4 That's what Hillary Mantel seems to be saying in this semi-balanced and somewhat sympathetic account of his rise and not yet fall. Written from the almost first person perspective of Cromwell, this award winning and highly praised book traces his life from humble beginnings and escape from an abusive father, to a patron of Cardinal Wolsey, and then to a trusted advisor to and &#34;fixer&#34; for Henry VIII. A centerpiece of the book is an insider's view of Cromwell's role in orchestrating a break with Rome in furtherance of the King's marital desires.  In the meantime, he becomes wealthy, influential, and feared. When pursuing personal gain he is tough but not unethical according to the standards of the day.  This do-over of his reputation results in a more nuanced portrayal of  a complex person. Yes, he can be ruthless, but in the manner of the times, only in pursuit of what he perceives the greater good and in furtherance of his King's wishes. If anything, because of his influence with Henry, he is able to moderate the king's views through subtle suggestions.But how did he do it? Highly intelligent with a facility for business and finance, he also possessed an uncanny ability to read people (&#34;read faces&#34; in his terminology) through his astute powers of observation and attention to detail. It doesn't hurt to combine  high energy with an ability to work without much sleep. Perhaps his humble beginnings gave him the drive to outmaneuver lazy noblemen and their sense of entitlement. Like any good politician, he doled out favors for future consideration and kept an enemies list. He, at times, was merciful and forgiving, charitable and compassionate, but always with an eye to future benefit or advantage. In his relentless pursuit of Henry's aims he employed all these devices in combination with his well known ruthlessness. This first volume in a planned trilogy ends with his standoff with Thomas More, who remains steadfast in his beliefs in defiance of Cromwell's attempts to persuade him to relent and save his life. A rare defeat for Cromwell, who of course moves on quickly.Having praised this book, I must also say it is not a fast read, nor should it be. The writing is in a hybrid speech  pattern of the time, which takes some adjustment, but once achieved is best appreciated in small gulps. Sip and savor to fully realize the pleasures of this work. Also, the author provides a cast of characters, to which one must refer constantly unless your short term memory is better than mine. This book is a project, but one worth pursuing.
1 I'm an intelligent, interested reader with some knowledge of the historical period this book covered but even so I couldn't follow the story. I felt like I was reading with a veil over my eyes, never quite seeing. It was a terribly frustrating read. I finally put it down unfinished when I realized the problem wasn't me it was the author. A real disappointment. I do not recommend in the slightest.
1 I looked forward to this book as I taught English lit and composition for 27 years.  However, this book is disappointing, disjointed and confusing.  Mantel uses &#34;he&#34; so frequently that the reference becomes lost.  Transitions are few and far between.  Save your time and money and skip this book.
2 I was carrying Wolf Hall under my arm in a grocery store when a rather nice woman came over to me and said, "I gave up at page 300." I thought, "After all the awards this novel has garnered, I won't be having a similar experience." I was wrong. I quite at around page 270.  Clearly, Ms. Mantel know how to research an exhilarating era. Sadly, she doesn't know much about transferring that excitement to the page. And I'm not alone. I have two other friends, both readaholics, who gave up, and only one who fought to the finish. Her choice of verb was "slog" to the finish.  I can't comprehend how this effort has won all of these awards. Please someone explain. Was it a slow year for literature?
4 I knew this book had won the Man Book prize this year and I did have high hopes. I was glad to see that they came through. There is nothing I love more than excellent writing, beautiful writing, an author that proud can call herself an author. Mantel manages this. She has a certain sort of style that I do not know how to describe. It makes the words move slowly, it's a slow pace to the book like it holds on to you so you will not miss a single word. I should know because I have been known to jump pages and still read them. Here is steadied myself and read slowly. She has a nice style.This could have been a boring book, but Mantel saves it with great writing and my favorite part, gossip. She tells the story of Thomas Cromwell, a man born in obscurity who worked his way up and at last became a trusted advisor to Henry VIII. This book sets place at the time of Anne Boleyn. After having met Thomas as a young boy running away we meet him again when he works for the bishop of York. He is known for making money. And at this time the streets are buzzing with the kings new mistress. It will be Cromwell that finally gets the kings divorce so that he can marry Anne.The title Wolf Hall comes from the ancestral seat of the Seymour. Sure they do not play a big part of this book since it's all about the Boleyns. But we all know as we read that we should look in the shadows for Jane Seymour and she does show up. A gray little thing, and as the book will close with Wolf Hall. A new beginning, or rather a new try.She writes about every day life, and the struggle for the king to marry Anne Boleyn. A woman who does not come across favourable in this book, now that is rather her poor sister who longs to be free in the end. It's a truthful and well researched book about what really went on. No over excessing glamour, sex or people made out to be heroes. No, real life as it was then. Power struggles, and death.Gossip was a big part of the book and at that time I am sure they would have gossiped a lot about the situation going on. But it's told as it is, gossip, no truth, because that we can not know. But I still enjoyed it a lot. It was very interesting and it gave a good feel of that era. There was also some talk about those kings that came before, and yes a bit more gossip. They were really a fascinating bunch of people and I can't remember I learned this much about English history or the Royal family.It is a book that is worthy of it's award. A great style and a way of writing that makes you see ordinary things in a new life. And a truthful look at life back then, and on one of the most famous and written about times in English history.One confusing thing though was that sometimes it was hard to know who was speaking. It didn't always say, I assumed Cromwell up to certain points.And yes it had me googling like crazy at the ending to know more about everything. Nothing like brushing up your history about the Tudors. I did not know he was related to Boleyn, I knew she was related to a wife but not a another. It was a family feast.
4 "Wolf Hall" is a challenging read, but worth the time and effort.  This is an alternative telling of Henry VIII's efforts to divorce his first wife, Catherine of Aragon, after 20 years, and marry the younger and spicier, Anne Boleyn.  The story is told from the perspective of Thomas Cromwell who became the king's instrument in bringing about the matrimonial change.  And in this version of the well-known tale, Cromwell is not only a brilliant lawyer/legislator/politician, but also a decent human being.  His adversary in this saga is Sir Thomas More who is portrayed here, not as the saintly man of traditional legend, but more as a public scold and persecutor of all who deviated from orthodoxy.Author Hilary Mantel has given the characters--and there are many--real heft and believable humanity.  The story becomes much less the abstract cartoon that we have all heard and read about for 400 years and more a totally human drama.  The historic backdrop has been exhaustively researched, so the reader has a palpable feel for the place and time of the story.Mantel's language and writing style, particularly the dialogues here, take real concentration by the reader.  Pronouns abound and require some back checking to attach to the appropriate subjects or objects.  The writing is so rich and evocative, that you must assume that the author wanted the reader to pay close attention to what was being said by her characters.  This is definitely not a book that can be scanned, and so much the better.An epic story, beautifully written, and highly recommended.
4 The characters come to life in this  novel  of Henry VIII. In fact, to me, the only unsympathetic  character was Anne Boleyn,  who struck me as cold, scheming and over-ambitious.  It  was a clever stroke to tell the story from the point of view of Thomas Cromwell. Why then,  4 stars instead of 5 ?  First,  it was a bit too long, and seemed to end arbitrarily.  Second, there was a stylistic  tic ,  which gave me pause each time it occurred. In referring to Cromwell, Ms. Mantel would  say "his".It was almost never clear who (immediately)  this referred to.  Evidently, she noticed this, yo, because we read  "He  (Cromwell) ..."  But these are  dwarfed  by the overall achievement of the book.
4 The deciding factor in whether or not one enjoys WOLF HALL will primarily be whether or not one likes literary fiction. Yes, it is also a historical novel, but an innovative one...which is why it (deservedly) won the Booker. The trade-offs of the narrative strategy are fascinating. Mantel's best writing transcends the lyrical and verges on poetic. In some spots I could almost hear, deep in the background, an echo of iambic pentameter and if you pick up on this book's underlying rhythm it will sweep you along on a tide of period gossip and debate. OTOH, if you demand well marked dialog attribution, a strong thru-plot and a POV with testosterone (Cromwell is a tad ethereal here given some of the slaughter he inspired or caused,) this novel may not be for you.I would also add that the typical reader will require some outside references to appreciate and perhaps even simply understand all of WOLF HALL. Mantel has a pitch perfect ear for Tudor tonalities but many of her references are obscure five centuries later. Remember, you will be INSIDE Thomas Cromwell's head from the first paragraph; there is no omniscient or 3rd party narrator. Apart from the up front list of the dramatic personae the book is uncompromising in its adherence to that point of view. When it works this technique is immersive...but unless the reader comes to WOLF HALL already well versed in Tudor culture (s)he should also be prepared to GOOGLE (making it a good Kindle read, btw.) Unlike the majority of (quite serviceable) historical fiction it does NOT double as a period primer.IMO, WOLF HALL won the Booker for the way it handled the obstacles inherent in writing a sprawling present-tense, quasi-first person, historical novel. And also because Mantel can flat out write. But that's all meta-stuff. If you prefer a straightforward costume drama nuke some popcorn and watch THE TUDORS. Personally I did both and found they worked well in tandem because the contradictions were thought provoking, inspiring further investigation. A ripping good yarn this is not; nor is it completely engaging emotionally. But for anybody who appreciates both literary and historical fiction WOLF HALL is an absolute MUST read.
5 One of the most beautiful, extraordinary books I have ever read. Mantel illuminates the human condition with a precision of language and an astonishing understanding.  You feel as if you are literally inside the mind of Thomas Cromwell. Not just an historical novel, but the timeless story of a man, and in a way Everyman, in the world.  Brilliant!
3 I found this book slightly difficult to read and confusing because the author used &#34;he&#34; to refer to  all the characters.  I eventually checked a book review and learned that most of the &#34;he's&#34; refer to Oliver Cromwell.
3 I enjoy history, this book enforced the notion that politics have never changed . There is not as much blood shed in our politics today,but are we not much further ahead in looking for the common good.It did drag a bit however.
5 Wolf Hall will be talked about more than any other book this fall.  Hilary Mantel won the Booker Prize for this believable historical novel about Thomas Cromwell.  Was Cromwell a saint or sinner or a little of both?  How did Cromwell outmaneuver Thomas More and gain power with Henry the Eighth? Wolf Hall will be on every bookclub list in 2010.  Get your copy now and do not wait for the paperback.
5 Great detail, fascinating viewpoint. It taught me not only a positive view of Thomas Cromwell, but showed the world that surrounded him, both regal and street. I was constantly wondering where the author drew all of the detail from. It was like reading about a foreign culture - the personalities are familiar, but the setting is a mind-shift.This book is worth being patient with - the author writes with an unusual style that takes a little getting used to - but it is WELL worth it! Can't wait to read Bringing Up the Bodies.
3 I am about half way through with this novel and have found it quite hard to follow. The author, Mantel, chose third-person omniscient as her point of view. This creates a distance between the author and characters and ultimately the reader. She is also not very conscientious of her use of quotation marks, so one doesn't always know who's speaking. I love reading about this era. If I had not read Mary Queen of Scotland and the Isles by Annette George and The Heretic's Wife by Brenda Rickman Vantrease, I would be sitting in a mire of words, not knowing up from down in this book. As it is, I'm going to push ahead and continue reading to, in essence, test the author to see if she finally captures my attention. So far, she hasn't.
1 I couldn't wait to get to the end of this book. It was very hard to understand who "he" was throughout the book. Cromwell, or someone else? In Vanity Fair Christpher H. described it as a great read; I bought it on this advice and was so disappointed, not only reading it but realizing I had also bought it and tried to read it several years earlier.
2 This book takes a lot of work to read and understand. The author's use of ambiguous pronoun's was certainly unique, but detracts too much from the book to make it worth the read. I read many books every year, and found this style to be an awful experience for myself. I don't want to reread pages and paragraphs over and over to figure out who the author is referring to.Many readers say that its genius, many say that its not worth reading. I ended up putting it down after 120 pages, but I can see recommending it to avid English history lovers. Other than that, not worth the effort. Not recommended.
3 I love historical novels and history in general, but I was expecting more adventure, intrigue and romance during the Tudor era. I stopped reading in the middle, waiting for the courage to finish the book.
5 A superb reading experience.  This is a big-boned generously-proportioned beauty of a book.  Despite its' size and weight not at all like a draft horse, more like a well-bred heavy hunter effortlessly and gracefully forging through a vast and tricky terrain.  No fancy gaits but does not balk at jumps or marshy bogs.In literary metaphor, Wolf Hall is like a well-balanced Shakespeare play  --  an old story told entirely in the present tense, a story made accessible to the modern reader through being rendered in modern language with familiar idiom:  "She's not crying for him (her brother).  She's crying for her idea of what life should be like."  Like Shakespeare not for poetry but for plot, character, dialogue.  Although sometimes an oath worthy of the bard adds spice to Mantel's plain writing style:  "Oh, by the thrice-bes***ted shroud of Lazarus!"It is also like one of those huge Russian novels with lots of characters, many having more than one name and convoluted relationships.  Fortunately there is a truly excellent playlist of characters at the front of the book, expertly set out and user-friendly.  The reader will have recourse to the playlist throughout the entire novel  --  this is not a quick read, so settle back and enjoy the ride.  Mantel sets a sedate pace but by the time you reach the end not only will you have been well-entertained, you will also have a thorough and sophisticated understanding of heretofore ponderous/boring topics such as The English Reformation.  It is not at all boring the way Mantel writes it, and is too good a story to be known only by History and Religion majors.SPOILER ALERT:  the title of the book does not refer to the home of the Seymours specifically.  It is a general reference to the savagery of the age.  homo homini lupus, man is wolf to man  --  and also to unprotected women.  For me, the most shocking thing in the novel is Cromwell's treatment of Mary Boleyn, although in this he is simply mirroring unconciously the ethic of his time.
2 This book was written in such a dreadful way that it ruined the experience for me. I am always interested in this era because it changed the world, but this woman decided, for some obscure reason, to break the most simple rules of writing: she changes speakers in the middle of a paragraph and give no clue as who is speaking to whom. She has two men speaking (perhaps Cromwell and King Henry VIII) and her sentence says something like 'so he went down and told him that he would..." Who? Who said it? Who heard it? It is like this throughout the book.She also uses and then for no reason, does not use quotation marks. There is no consistency in this and this absolutely drives one mad to try to figure out what was just meant..While it is full of information focusing on a man who deserved better, the implication in the book is that Thomas Cromwell single-handedly saved the Kingdom for Henry, but gives no clue about what happened, ultimately, in his career as a rags to riches Johnny Jumpup.My suggestion? Read The Other Boleyn Girl and skip this silly trip through territory better handled by others.
3 I felt it was slow moving and difficult to keep the characters straight. I love historical fiction but this was not one of my favorites.
3 Just couldn't keep up with all the characters.  Beautifully written.  Maybe this summer when I have airspace in my head.
3 It is always interesting to read of the intoxicatingly, over the top era of the reign of Henry the 8th and his entertaining life with his first two queens.  The thing about this book is it takes it from an entirely new vantage point and retells the well worn tale bringing it into a new light.  Anne and Henry are secondary figures to the outsider Thomas Cromwell.  We see how the Royal's actions are viewed by more common folk and the political/theological struggles that took place to get the Tudor king what he wanted.  Cromwell's life is fascinating, and one I knew nothing about. However I found I had to force my way through the pages to get to the meat of the story.  It wasn't always easy to tell if the person speaking was Thomas Cromwell, Thomas Moore or Cardinal Wosley.  I often had to go back a page or two to see who was speaking to who.  A reader shouldn't have to do that.  In all I found the book unclear, and because of that, slow going.  I would have loved to read the sequel but I don't want to put myself through this again so will be looking for something new.  Too bad.
3 I was disappointed with this novel.  Not as interesting as I thought it would be although some parts were very good.  Used a lot of older English terms which I had to keep looking up.  If you are very interested in Thomas Cromwell then this is a good book for you.
4 Mantel takes you back to 16th century England and makes you feel that you are there. Her depiction of the protagonist is complete and realistic. You will feel that he is an old friend by the time you finish the book.
5 I'm a long-time fan of Hillary Mantel and looked forward to this book, but it exceeded even my expectations.  Ms. Mantel tells this history in such a new way; I found myself doubting my historical knowledge (he certainly couldn't have gotten away with it!) and realizing anew the social, political, and spiritual implications of this time.  It felt like a mudslide; the surface looks the same as the earth shifts beneath and then suddenly, the hillside is gone.  Remarkable.
5 Wolfhall takes us back to the historic battle between King Henry and Pope Clement in Italy for supremacy in the 18th century England.  Even though most of us may be familiar with that struggle the novel helps us relive it with gripping intensity. The loyalists, Cromwell for the King and Thomas More for the Pope, engage in moving dialogue justifying the opposing views.We find the issues then have relevance for us now. The book is a facinating read, especially for history buffs.
2 I read someplace the author planned on fitting the whole story into one book but ended up writing three instead. She should have stuck to one.  For history buffs, it might be a good read. But for a reader that wants a novel with a plot that moves forward and makes you want to keep reading, the story drags on.I find that the best way to make reviews helpful is by adding a list of books I love and books I hated. That way you can compare and determine whether you and I have similar tastes. So here is my list:Books I love or at at least really, really like:We Need to Talk about Kevin.Tell the Wolves I'm HomeWhen the Emperor Was DivineThe History of HistoryThe Remains of the DayWe Have Always Lived in the CastleThe Night CircusWater for ElephantsThe Sisters BrothersThe Poisonwood BibleBooks I REALLY hated:The Bear in a Muddy Tutu1Q84The Buddha of SuburbiaA Visit from the Goon SquadSun StormA Long Way DownWhen We Were OrphansThe Haunting of Hill House
5 Reading this novel was unlike many of my previous reading experiences. For the first 50 pages or so I was irritated at the vague pronoun usages (mentioned in nearly every review I have read on Amazon) and the dizzying cast of characters. And then something happened; I got use to Ms. Mantel's writing style, and my knowledge of history kicked in and I was swept up in the story. In that sense, "Wolf Hall" is a lot like reading Shakespeare. It takes a minute to get use to the style and language, and previous knowledge of the characters and their relationships is a plus, and then it is a very enjoyable experience.I would not read this novel if...-you don't enjoy history, specifically the Tudor period in England.-you don't want to devote some serious reading time to this text. It is not a novel you can put down and come back to a week later. It is too intricately plotted and populated for that.If the above does not describe you I would encourage your picking up this 604 page tome. Despite its length, it is a quick and engaging read and I found myself immersed in it for a long time at each sitting. Another pleasure of the novel was in how Mantel slowly unravels the intricacies of the history of the period for the close reader. About 200 pages in I suddenly had a eureka moment and understood the title. Such little pleasures make the text even more enjoyable. There are many such moments in the book, where the reader suddenly sees what later event Mantel is setting up in the plot. A clever and subtle genius, that adds greatly to her novel. Often I found myself going to the web to read further about some topic Mantel brings up the text. A great site for such info is tudorhistory.org. Checking those references made the immersion in the novel all the more fuller for me.The novel's protagonist is the much maligned in history Thomas Cromwell, who was one of the most influential men in English history. He is usually forgotten in the miasma of Henry VIII, Anne Boleyn, Cardinal Wolsey, Thomas More, etc. But historically Cromwell was the center of the storm that these folks swirled around. Most of the novel is told from his perspective and we often find ourselves inside his head, privy to his observations and thoughts. As has been mentioned numerous times, this is the source of confusion for some readers, as Mantel is vague with pronoun usage, but it is deliberate on her part. She is recreating the speech patterns and writing style of the period.Another bonus of the text is that surprisingly, the novel is often very funny, as Mantel endows Cromwell with a very dry and bitter wit.This is an episodic novel, and not an easy read. But if you enjoy the pleasures of a unique style and a close read, then pick this one up. There is already a sequel in the works, and I for one will be reading it.
1 I had to resort to a paper book (which I absolutely hated to d) because the kindle edition would not download to my kindle.  So I cannot really rate it.  I did this twice and each time it would not download so I had to ask for reimbursement.  DO NOT TRY TO DOWNLOAD IT!!!!!!
5 Wolf Hall, the 2009 winner of the Man Booker Prize, is a huge commitment, but the return on that investment is in a multiplicity of pleasures.  There is the language - that alone would make the book worthwhile, but Mantel is not content to settle for beautiful language; she also offers an intricate plot, rich and deeply imagined characters, and an ornate historical setting.At the novel's center is Thomas Cromwell, like the spider in his web.  Like the spider Mantel's Cromwell personifies duality, both deadly and beneficial - his ruthless pragmatism the thread that unites all the pieces of the design.The Tudors are a perennial favorite.  Who doesn't love Henry VIII and his women (headless or otherwise)?  Yet there are other stories to be told from the time and Cromwell is a wonderful choice.  He is in many ways a most modern gentleman - an ultra-competent lawyer and financial administrator, arguably the father of modern government.  I've always admired Cromwell - his practicality appeals and it certainly shines in this depiction.  I've never understood the fascination with Saint Thomas More, the vaunted man for all seasons (where all seasons are for burning heretics) with his unlivable Utopia.  If we must talk of government give me someone who can create order out of chaos and spin gold out of hay.  I guess I've always rooted for Rumpelstiltskin.  Cromwell gazes at us out of his Holbein portrait, looking "like a murderer," surrounded by his tools of office, caught between tasks for his King.  Wolsey's prot&eacute;g&eacute;, Cromwell is the man who severed England's ties with the Catholic Church and got Henry his divorce from Katherine and wedding to Anne Boleyn.  In Cromwell, the son of a blacksmith, the English aristocracy got a taste of the rise of talent over birth.  Mantel envisions him as a radical social reformer, tallying up the wrongs, setting them right, and gathering power to him through the exercise of his prodigious skill and intellect.This is a novel that is concerned with power of all kinds - the personal and political go hand-in-hand throughout as each illuminates the other.  The sharp contrast between Cromwell's unwieldy, ever-growing, and above all happy family and More's sniping at his wife and daughters make the author's views brutally clear.  We are dropped into the very middle of the action at the novel's beginning, with its central character being beaten to within an inch of his life by his father and crawling, inch by inch, towards safety.  It is this event and its careful, steady momentum that sets the tone for the rest of the book with Cromwell at its center moving inch by inch, ever forward into his future.It is easy to forget that at one time publishing the Bible in a language other than Latin was radical and heretical, that to say that the bread on the altar was just that - bread, metaphorical flesh - was to speak against the word of God as delivered by his priests.  A Bible in English, printed in a book that could be mass-produced and read by anyone - this is the stuff that modernity is built on.  It's not just about Henry's sexual peccadilloes or about Anne Boleyn's thirst for the crown; it's about the birth of an Empire that is sovereign outside of the control of the Pope.  The Tudors feel familiar in part because their struggles - over sexual mores, social mobility, the role of Church and State - are our struggles.Wolf Hall succeeds on all levels, elevating its genre above the level of bodice ripping without neglecting the sheer joy of getting to know another time and its people through an inventive author's eyes.  It is good to sit inside Cromwell's head, to see the world through his eyes, to walk those familiar paths behind him.  This is a novel that will make you dream, will make you think, will make you smile, even as its main character hurtles, inch by inch, towards his off-stage demise.
5 Most historians have not been kind to Cromwell and have focused on Thomas More.  Although fiction, &#34;Wolf Hall&#34; forces a different look at an interesting period.
5 It took me forever to finish, but overall I enjoyed it. Cromwell is touching and believable. The dialogue is witty and wry.
5 I'm rather glad I didn't finish Wolf Hall last summer. Although I was enjoying the book greatly, it does, as many reviewers have noted, take some concentration, and I knew that once the rat race of a new semester began, I would have little time to devote to it. So I put it away and started over from the beginning a few weeks ago. One reason that I'm happy to have waited is that I have an LTER copy of the sequel, Bring Up the Bodies. And I am delightfully free now to immerse myself in Cromwell's world.What can I possibly add to all the accolades that Wolf Hall has garnered? Yes, it is beautifully written, at times smart and snappy, at other times almost lyrical. Mantel's concept--to take a slice of popular and well-known history and revisit it through the eyes of one who watched and manipulated events rather than one of the direct participants--is brilliant. Thomas Cromwell remains enough of a shadow figure in the history books that the author is free to imagine his inner world, the ticking of his mind and the workings of a heart most would never suspect that he had.Henry's court is a dangerous and exciting place, one where even a smithy's son can move upward on his merit but where everyone constantly has to watch his or her back and think before speaking. Cromwell's conversations with Anne Boleyn and with Thomas More read like a chess match, each player trying not only to outsmart the oppponent but to anticipate the next move. And Mantel provides planty of details to draw in her readers.I rarely give books a five-star rating, but I'd give Wolf Hall six stars, if I could. It's everything one could hope a historical novel to be--and more.
5 Mantel takes us inside Cromwell's macro worldly view. She changes his voice from first to third to omniscient with a facile literary craft that transcends time and tense. In doing so, she reduces Henry and the aristocracy around him to parochial, debauched, naive pawns. Wolf Hall is worthy of all of its prizes. thesidetrek
5 After a couple of years of meaning to read 'Wolf Hall,' I finally did so.  I couldn't believe a book about Cromwell (*yawn*) could be worthy of the universally excellent reviews that Wolf Hall received. Was I ever wrong!  Hilary Mantel has given Cromwell - typically cast as sneaky, amoral, and nakedly ambitious - a complete makeover; Mantel's deft portrait of Cromwell makes Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn seem dull in comparison.  Some previous reviewers have stated that this is a boring and/or difficult read. It may not be your typical beach read, but literary fiction is seldom this entertaining or interesting. The references to 'he' and 'him' can be a bit confusing at first, but after a few chapters, you'll settle into the rhythm of her prose and find that the rewards are rich and worth your efforts.
2 I found this book hard to follow.  Everytime I put it down, I had to reread several pages to catch up.
5 Loved this historical fiction which weaves known details of Thomas Cromwell's life with the author's imagination of how his life may have unfolded.  The primary setting is in England in the era of Henry VIII's reign, with focus on his machinations to effect a divorce from Catherine and marry Anne Bolyn.  Thomas Cromwell was a major player on this stage and this fictional account brings the intrigue of the moment into vivid play.  Mantel's research was exhaustive and put to wonderful fruition in this novel.
4 Wolf Hall is an interesting historical fiction, told from the view of Thomas Cromwell, who rose to prominence during the period that King Henry VIII sought a divorce from Queen Katherine, in order to marry Ann Boleyn.  I did get a bit confused sometimes, trying to figure out who is speaking.  But I read the paragraph again and figured it out.  She uses "he thinks" sometimes, and I didn't know who "he" was.  Generally, it was Thomas Cromwell.  If you like the Tudor period, then you will like this book.
5 Written in present tense, it can be at times confusing as to the talker. However, it is so cleverly written that that is easily overcome.
5 This is one of those books that I wasn't sure if I wanted to read or not, but became convinced by reviews and the appearance of the second of the series that I needed to give it a try (Bring Up the Bodies - I mean, how can you not read a book called that?!). I had abandoned Tudor historical fiction for my more favored Plantagenets, but the point of view of Thomas Cromwell promised something new.The first 150 pages of this book drove me crazy for the same reasons noted by others. Mantel has little respect for common rules of grammar such as putting dialog in quotation marks or starting a new paragraph with a new speaker. She uses run-on sentences making use of punctuation not often seen in other modern fiction. If you love dashes, semi-colons, and colons, Hilary is your girl, Cromwell is referred to as "he" no matter how many men are in a scene, much to the confusion of the poor reader. Once I got beyond wondering how this manuscript ever got through editing, I loved it.I was completely taken in by Mantel's characterization of Cromwell. He is not sweet or romanticized, but neither is he a dastardly criminal whom you cannot wait to have meet his end. He is rough, but caring in his own way. He "looks like a murderer," but the women of London would line up for the chance to be the next Mrs. Cromwell. He is clever and sarcastic, the kind of man a woman falls in love with and then wonders that he is not sensitive and romantic toward her.The dialog, once you let Mantel's version of punctuation sink in and become some form of normal, is witty, realistic, and made me laugh out loud in public on more than one occasion. I only did not enjoy Henry's conversations as he seemed too much a caricature of himself. Cromwell referring to Wriothesley as "Call-Me" made me smile every time.This novel felt like it was written as a diary by Thomas Cromwell, but written in the third person to avoid anyone knowing that he wrote it. We are welcomed into the inter-workings of his mind, but always Cromwell is referred to as "he." It is almost as though Mantel was trying too hard to make her writing stand out as different, more literary, than other modern fiction, but the way she makes the characters come to life is a very redeeming quality. In the end, I gained an appreciation for Mantel's writing style which did make the novel stand apart from other, less complex, writing.As others have noted, you will not want to read this book if you are not already familiar with the people and events that take place in it. This is not a exhaustive history of Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn, but a very detailed account of it from one man's point of view. If you have never heard of Thomas Wolsey, Charles Brandon, Eustache Chapuys, or Reginald Pole, you will very likely be confused and frustrated. People are not explained or defined much beyond Cromwell's own thoughts about them, so you will want to have a decent background education on Henry VIII before trying this. If you love the Tudor period and challenging literature, I highly recommend this book.
2 I was disappointed in the story although the history is undoubtedly accurate. It opens with two unknown blokes brawling for too long, and I wasn't caring who won the fight. Some preceding character build-up might have helped. I persevered to the final page, but just could not like this bestseller.My advice is get a sample before purchase.
1 It's amazing to me that someone could take the Tudor dynasty and make it boring and unreadable!! However, it has been done. I tried, I really did, to get into this book. I've read many books about the Tudor's and am very familiar with all the characters and I still couldn't connect to it. The only good thing is that I borrowed it from the library and didn't spend any money on it. After I delete it from my kindle, I'm going to my library page and deleting the sequel.
5 This historical fiction novel takes place during the time of Henry VIII's divorce from Katherine of Aragon and his marriage to Anne Boleyn.  What makes this novel unique is that these events are told from the point of view of Thomas Cromwell, whose voice has been rarely heard until now.  The book delves into Cromwell's history: the events from his childhood that shaped his ascension to a high position within Henry VIII's court. Hilary Mantel does a superb job of bringing to light a more human side of the man who is known mostly as a ruthless figure in Tudor history.  A must-read for anyone interested in this era of British history.
5 This book is a grand achievement, with far-reaching scope into the historic characters of the time and considerable depth as personal motives combine with the common manner in which human existence was conceptualized in a time of political and religious repression and uncontrolled infectious diseases. The historic novel is set in a time of considerable turmoil and conceptual upheaval since the religious foundations that were 1500 hundred years old were being challenged by the Reformation and this struggle for a new identify for Christianity is overlaid with the political ambitions of an extra-ordinary ruler, Henry VIII. It is a strength of Mantel that she is able to balance the novel between the romance and interpersonal struggles within the court of Henry VIII and also to explore the grim battle between the established Roman Catholic Church and those who would transform the manner in which the common man understood and experienced Christianity. The struggles between Henry and his first wife Catherine of Aragon are explored in depth, not only at the personal level and the international political level but also at the theological level. Mantel gives us a front row seat in the most impactful divorce trial in Western history.Mantel has selected not to tell the tale through the eyes of Henry VIII, or Catherine of Aragon, or through Anne Boleyn, but rather through the eyes of an exceptional self-made man, Thomas Cromwell, who became the primary advisor to Henry VIII through his considerable political pragmatism and diplomatic skills.  This is the perfect protagonist for Cromwell knew the power of reflection and strategic planning rather than operating from instinct and impulse. Cromwell is juxtaposed to Sir Thomas More, a brilliant Roman Catholic ideologue, who relentlessly fought all creep of the Reformation on English soil.Cromwell was the trusted advisor to Cardinal Thomas Wolsey, the King's primary advisor. When Wolsey falls from grace due to his inability to arrange the divorce of Henry from Catherine of Aragon, Thomas Cromwell remains loyal and clear-headed, characteristics noticed by Henry VIII. The Boleyn clan is very skeptical of Cromwell until Anne realizes that the may have the intellectual and diplomatic skills to obtain the divorce of Henry from Catherine that would propel her to England's queen. Mantel perfectly paints Anne as highly intelligent and manipulative and thus never really brought into the full confidence of Cromwell.Mantel, a master of prose, has a dark wicked streak that she allows to come out in her descriptions of diseases, poverty, violence, torture, warfare, and execution. She has the ability to describe folks burning at the stake or having their intestines pulled out with hot tongs that is crisp, well-described, and that captures the full horror without overstatement. She is able to make the 16th Century come alive with her descriptions, especially the societal turmoil stirred up by his divorce from Catherine of Aragon.Mantel has indicated that she is writing a sequel. This is very appealing since the trial and execution of Anne Boleyn, the marriage of Henry to Jane Seymour, the birth of his legal son, the rise of the Church of England, and the disastrous marriage of Henry to Lutheran Anne of Cleves all took place under Thomas Cromwell's watch. I hope the sequel is as excellent as Wolf Hall.
4 I *really* enjoyed this book, I just finished it this morning and I was tinged with regret that it was over even though I have Bring up the Bodies to look forward too. The Thomas Cromwell in this book is so very different from the Thomas Cromwell in any other piece of historical fiction I have read. He is so likeable, a man of the people who does genuine good while navigating the treacherous waters of Henry VIII court. It takes some time to get used to Mantel's writing style and when I first started reading there was definitely an ambiguity around who was speaking but it resolved itself a couple of chapters in and actually began to feel more natural and in some strange way, intimate. I may come back and give this book five stars after I have had more time to digest it, I literally wrote this as soon as I read the last sentence
4 Although I was fascinated by the characterization and the development of the details in this version of thereign of H8 and the king's relationship to Thomas Cromwell, some have mentioned that following the characters can be confusing because of the multiple persons named Thomas, Mary, etc.  That is, to some extent, true.  But even more confusing was the author's lack of pronoun antecedents - particularly "he".  There were many, many times that Cromwell was never named in a scene, but just referred to as "he".  That there were other "he"s in the scene which sometimes were and sometimes weren't identified by actual name made the book unnecessarily difficult to follow.  Instead of making the writing richer, it only added a distraction to what was otherwise a wonderful read.
5 This is a novel on the subjective mode. It's told in the usual third person, however, the incessant use of the "he" to describe the protagonist Thomas Cromwell forces the reader to pay attention and follow the novel as s/he her/himself views the action developing from Cromwell's viewpoint - something, in written terms, as Velazquez's Las Meninas, where what is seem is what the sitter himself would be seeing. What Ms. Mantell wants us to do is to react to what is happening as if we were Cromwell, the common man caught in the whirlwind of his time and reacting to it according to its own lights. Ms. Mantell's political point is, quite naturally, conservative, as she takes up the cudgels for a partisan of legality like Cromwell and makes no effort to conceal her ("his"?) loathing of an utopian and ideologue like Thomas More. Personally, my sympathies lie in the very opposite side; but I must acknowledge that she has done much to make a very unlikeable character - an upstart, a "jumped-up nobody" as the text goes, who successfully wormed his way unto power - at least, an intersting subject.
5 The scope and breadth of this novel is immense. Hilary Mantel sets out to describe a tumultuous period in English history, not by focusing on the main event- Henry and Anne- but by showing the struggle faced by those more behind the scenes. Thomas Cromwell says, late in the book, that worlds are not changed by kings and popes, but by two men sitting at a table, coming to an agreement, or by the exchange of thoughts and ideas across countries. And that is what Mantel seems to believe, too; thus, she does not focus her story on the huge proclamations or big meetings. She shows us Cromwell, alone at his desk, thinking and reminiscing. She details short, almost off-hand conversations between Cromwell and his wonderful family. And then, sometimes, she will give us fascinating debates between Cromwell and Sir Thomas More, the "man for all seasons" who was ruthless in his practices to rid England of heretics.Even the title of the book is more suggestive than straight-forward. Wolf Hall is the seat of the Seymour clan, but no scene in the book takes place there. The Seymours make cameos, and Cromwell takes note of them, but Wolf Hall is a distant building for most of the book. Instead, it represents Cromwell's forward thinking. He is grateful to the Boleyns for his rise in court and favor, but he does not allow himself to depend on them. He tells his son, "...it's all very well planning what you will do in six months, what you will do in a year, but it's no good at all if you don't have a plan for tomorrow." And Cromwell always, always has a plan for tomorrow.I am not sure if I fully believe in Mantel's reconstruction of Cromwell as a man who wanted only to reform England, and was so forward-thinking in his ideals. However, it's understandable; Cromwell was a blacksmith's son who rose to prominence at a time when everyone important was noble or royal. Of course he would want the same opportunities for his family and friends. Perhaps in the promised sequel, we'll get the hardened and more ruthless Cromwell that people remember.Mantel's writing style drew me in completely. This book reminded me a great deal of A Place of Greater Safety, in terms of writing style. I don't think I enjoyed it as much as that book, but that's probably because the French Revolution absorbs me far more than Tudor England does. Mantel writes so lyrically, so adeptly. She immerses herself in the period- the food, the clothes, the heat, the stench. She researched this book for years, and it's obvious in the product. But she does not get bogged down by her facts, or by history. Her flair for witty conversation brings her characters to life, giving them flesh and blood where history only gives them stark facts and wooden portraits. Yes, Cardinal Wolsey was able to tell a joke. Yes, Cromwell loved his wife. We don't see those things, 500 years later.The only parts of the writing that annoyed me, stylistically, were as follows: first, Mantel usually uses quotation marks to denote conversation, but sometimes she does not; second, Mantel uses the pronoun "he" too much. The first is just frustrating in reading such a thick novel because it can interrupt a rhythm. The second is confusing because there are often multiple "he" in conversation, and you can't be sure who she is referring to, all the time.Other than that, though- this book is great! Very worthy of the Booker Prize, in my view, and I look forward to the sequel. Lovers of epic, varied novels will be thrilled. Not only are extensive family trees provided, but there is also a five-page long list of characters. This isn't the sort of book you read for ten minutes on the morning commute. It's one to savor with a glass of wine.
5 I read &#34;Bring Up the Bodies&#34; first, but wish I'd read this first. It gives more detail of Cromwell's early life and fleshes out his rise in power under Henry VIII.  The writing suits me to a tea and the story is breathtaking. I hope Mantel goes on with the story of Cromwell after Anne B. gets her head chopped off.
5 It is a long book but a page turner.  A must for Tudor fans.  I am looking forward to the next book in the series.
5 no problems, everything arrived on time and in good condition, no errors  or breakage contained in the order.  Very Good
1 Wolf HallThe vast majority of reviews of Wolf Hall by Hilary Mantel on Amazon, and in prestigious literary "outlets" such as The New Yorker, are positive.  Many people like this book.  Quite a few even appear to love this book.I, on the other hand, loathed it.  Why are my reactions so atypical?  Am I missing something that so many others seem to savor and appreciate?I suppose that at the bottom of my very sincere and deep deep dislike of this book is that, although it purports to describe a reality that at one time existed, in the sense that a history of Thomas Cromwell and his cronies did in fact take place, and in some ways is well chronicled by historians, the depiction of this reality in this novel is deeply and malignantly false. False, not because the "facts" are wrong, or are confused, not because the author didn't do "research," but because the guts of the book, for example the conversations between the (too) many characters, their reactions to each other, their wit, their little phobias and ticks that make them human, and many of the details of the quotidian life of the times are simply made up, fabulated out of whole cloth. As such, these portrayals are totally worthless, because they are weightless inventions, and can not possibly be used in coming to any sort of conclusions about the period or the characters who inhabited it.  What kind of man was Cromwell?  What was Henry VIII really like? What did the times feel like? Does anyone possibly think that this book answers these questions in any substantive way?  After all, its author, Hilary Mantel, has elsewhere created a portrait of Robespierre that makes him an appealing person. Hmmmm....what a fine novelist....realizing that Robespierre was such a fine individual!  Wish someone would do that for Hitler.  Or Stalin.  All of them misunderstood by history:  only an excellent novelist could see through the depredations of history and reveal the inner glorious selves of these misunderstood men!  And what about the "truth" about Lincoln?  That in fact he was a child-molesting racist who got his start, as a small boy, by torturing animals!  And that psychopath, Washington, with his delusions of grandeur.  Surely we need the fine touch of an excellent, perceptive, sensitive novelist who could "bring to life" these realities, so often obscured by our mania for......what? Truth?  What the world needs are more novels containing fantastic inventions about real people who really lived!  The pedophile Lincoln!  The delusional Washington! The insane JFK, who concocted his own murder! The very kindly Pol Pot! Only then can we begin to see the greater truths that surround us, underappreciated by all except the talented novelist, who, by inventing things, brings reality to history.... The whole enterprise gives oxymorons a bad name. Plato surely was right about these issues.I'm not clear why people take this novel, this ostentatious drivel, so seriously, giving it a prize, speaking in hushed tones how this work gives us new understanding of an age and historical characters when almost the entire edifice has been made up, and could in fact have been made to go in any direction that its author felt like taking.  I have not the slightest idea what we gain from slogging through this monstrosity.  Have we learned some history?  Well, not really, since all the "facts" are fatally tinged with manipulative deception on the part of the novelist. Is it a "good read?"  Hardly: it is archly pretentious throughout, painfully, ploddingly slow, very confusing because of the multiplicity of "characters," extremely annoying because of the incessant present tense narration and fake English language amalgam that is supposed to suggest the speech of the times, but is wholly inadequate, and, finally, because the very limitations of the novel's form make any meaningful meta-analysis of the period impossible.Did I mention that I hated this book?
5 This is truly rich historical fiction.  I have never been so impressed by an author that I can remember and intend to read her other books immediately.  It looks like a daunting read on the shelf and I knew going in a sequel was planned which made it even harder to pick up, but the first few pages were all it took to get me hooked.  The level of detail alone told me it was going to be a transportative experience.In simplest terms, "Wolf Hall" is about the coming of the Church of England and the part played in it bynthe somewhat power-hungry Thomas Cromwell who seems most concerned with serving his king, Henry VIII, in a way that will make them both rich.  The king is a profligate spender and Cromwell, a businessman at heart, wants to insure England's lasting wealth by utilizing his knowledge of the marketplace to grow it amidst others who think the tap will never be cut off.  As the book goes along, we follow Henry VIII as he seeks to sever his first marriage in order to marry Anne Boleyn and Cromwell is the legal eagle he employs to execute this.  Cromwell must work around the clock to make it happen, going up against numerous relpresentatives of the church who he tries to convince that the king is ready to go to war if they don't agree to his wishes.Exactingly researched down to the hour and minute of certain events, I found myself surprised that the whole legal affair becomes a real thrilling nailbiter.  The way Mantel tells the story is so sumptuous and ultimately so tragic as we know that many of these characters will die by the whim of the king.  The entire book only compounds our dismay at Henry's later actIons which seem monstrous in the face of the very human-feeling people in this text.I could not recommend this book more.
3 A disclaimer. I like stories with actual plots. Also, historical fiction with the main character a real life person turns me off. I keep wanting to ask the author, And you know this person feels this way because????Since this was a literary book, I expected little plot and a fabricated personality. That part was fine. But I also expected better writing from an award-winning author. Having to constantly reread passages to figure out who 'he' referred to became tedious after awhile.This story revolves around Thomas Cromwell, adviser to Henry VIII, and his machinations to keep his place and do his job. It brings in Cromwell's family life but is mostly about Cromwell's part in the king's quest to marry Ann Boleyn. I imagine history buffs will prefer a nonfiction version.I'll probably read Bring Up the Bodies -- I do have a Seymour in my family tree -- but there's no rush. I can wait.
3 I really enjoy historical fiction, particularly about the Boleyn/Henry VIII era.  This book was a bit too detailed, a bit too wordy, sometimes felt a little disjointed and hard to follow.  It was, however, interesting to learn a bit more about Thomas Cromwell.  The author had a very sympathetic view of him, which has been debated in other texts.
1 &#34;So it wasn't just me, she said as he thought about the tome and mentioned the characters but then The Dutchess of Dutchland interrupted and she replied to Lord Harold on his thinking.&#34;. If you think this sentence doesn't make any sense, you will not enjoy trying to get through this book! Someone told me that I should read it before reading the next book in the series, Bring Up the Bodies, and I struggled through it, but it was an ordeal. And now that I have finally finished it, I am still not sure who was on which side, and who was related to whom. Maybe it should come with its own set of Cliffs Notes.
4 The NY Times, in a review of Alison Weir's new book on the last four months of the life of Ann Bolyen, called "Wolf Hall" "impenetrable".  While maybe not that, it can be fairly obscure, if you aren't already familiar with the characters of Henry VIII's court.  There is alot of intimation and oblique references.  Wolf Hall is the family home of the Seymores (Thomas, Edward, Jane) and frankly, doesn't have a great deal to do with what goes on in this book.  In fact, it ends with a decision to spend 5 days at Wolf Hall.If you know your way around the Tudor court, you know those will be a fateful five days.  If you don't, the response will more likely be "So?"(Fortunately, it appears that this is the first in a series, so those 5 days at Wolf Hall, and what follows will be more further explored.)I found Ms. Mantel's writing style very difficult for the first 100 pages or so.  Then, the penny dropped, and I was enwrapped in her world view.  At that point, this became a very difficult book to put down.This books brings all the characters to life in a robust and vibrant fashion.  A well told story, if a somewhat anticlimatic conclusion.
2 Too many characters; too much information makes Wolf Hall a slow and tedious read. The sequel is actually better but you need to read Wolf Hall first to understand the key characters.
3 I love the character - Thomas Cromwell - but I hate her indeterminate pronouns when two three or four are talking together.  I am kind of able to decide who is speaking &#34;he&#34; but it slows down the flow of the book.
2 Consistently, I am confused as to which character is speaking. Also the author jumps sound in time. There are different &#34;Anne's&#34; and &#34;Thomases&#34; adding to the confusion since there is again little clarification. I had to reread sections to make sure I understood the time period and which character is involved.
5 The novel is an extraordinary achievement that ranks amongst the best books that I've read.  If you come looking for conventional presentation of plot-driven historical fiction, which appears to have been the case for many of the Amazon reviewers, you'll not find it.  This is far more - the story is there, told with astonishing artistry and wit, but the core of the book is an exploration of the the transition from the medieval to the modern, and the ideas and emotions on both sides of this transition.  The more you reflect on the book, the more you realize is there.
2 I have the same misgivings about the authors use of the first person when Cromwell is speaking or formulating a thought. More annoying however is the fact that I have trouble following the &#34;thread of history&#34; when he maddeningly fails to bring the other important historical characters into focus. I suppose it would help if I had a more firm grasp of English medieval history but then I thought that was the point of this book.
3 Wolf Hall deals with a period that has long held my interest, so I was looking forward to reading it.  Its historic detail is enlightening, and the plot is compelling, making me want to read on (I have not yet finished it). However, in paragraphs involving two or more men, the author's constant use of "he," without any other means of identifying which character is speaking or harboring private thoughts, is driving me crazy.  Often I have to stop, re-read the paragraph -- and sometimes even re-read a paragraph or two before it -- to figure out whose opinion or words are being expresssed.  In some cases I don't find an answer. In an historical novel it is particularly important for the reader to identify individual characters with their political and religious positions because they set the background for everything that follows (after all, isn't that why the author provides this information?).  Mantel's lack of clarity in this regard is frustrating and, for me at least, interrupts the flow of the book.It is now about 5 months after I wrote the previous paragraph. I finally gave up on the book well before its end for the reason noted above. It was taking me too long to figure out who was saying what.  It just wasn't worth my time.
5 I read for pleasure and hope to pick up something useful along the way, but for me the story is paramount and this story never falters.It's a gripping tale anyway, based as it is on one of history's more interesting characters. The author's ability to humanize distant figures and convey how very close to the edge every one of these people lived, navigating daily what amounted to the only existing path to fame and fortune, brings into perspective that although life was very different in those times people were essentially the same - motivated by all the same things that motivate us today and suffering from the same setbacks and troubles.If you've ever wondered how today's aristocracy got to where they are, here's the answer. Social politics with unimaginably high stakes are played out in all their unattractive guises. The prize for the winners is the patronage of a king with the power to bestow endless wealth - not only on the protagonists, but on their descendants through the ages - and, for those who dared and won, true immortality in the annals of history.The descent of a strategic genius into corruption, spurred by the increasing need to hold onto hard-won position and power in the face of the vicious competition of the royal court, is subtly documented and as relevant to today's society as to Tudor England's.Loved it, loved it, loved it.......and learnt something too.
4 This was a bit rough going in the early chapters but worth staying with it as it is an important prelude to Bring Up The Bodies.
5 She does not need my five stars.  This is great.  I have read this and the second volume (Bring up the Bodies) of the series. The new standard fictionalization of Henry the  VIII's reign.  Waiting breathlessly for the final volume
5 Wolf Hall is the name of this Man Booker Award Winniing novel by Hilary Mantel. The novel is fiction served up fresh with historical insight. The chief character is Thomas Cromwell who rose from life as an abused son of a London blacksmith to becoming Chancellor of England. Thomas lives to the last page of this book but was eventually beheaded by Henry VIII due to his support of Anne Boleyn.Thomas Cromwell rose to the top of the slippery and deadly pole of British politics as he saw his master Cardinal Thomas Wolsey be labelled a traitor and removed from office. Cromwell's chief opponent in the power game is Lord Chancellor Thomas More, the author of "Utopia", who is a saint in the Roman Catholic Church. More could be cruel in his pursuit and persecution of Protestants sending many to their deaths by fire and ax.The long novel traces the courting and wedding of Anne Boleyn. Her first child by the amorous Henry was Elizabeth I while a second child died a stillbirth. As the novel ends it is clear that Anne's fate will soon be sealed with her death. Henry is said to be on his way to visit Wolf Hall the Howard Family home where he will seduce, bed and wed Jane Seymour (she will die a few days after giving birth to Edward VI who reigned as a sickly youth from 1547-1553).Mantel provides geneologies and shows how the many characters were related. Her dialogue is often hard to follow because we don't have a clear idea which character is speaking! Thomas Cromwell is presented in a new light to Mantel's readers. He was a complex person who was filled with ambitions but who had a kind heart caring for  his widowed children and many destitute persons from the London slums. Cromwell was shaped in life by his cruel father Walter who beat and kicked the boy. Cromwell left this environment to serve as a sailor and a soldier in France. He was a skilled lawyer, a polyglot and a learned man who knew life's seamier side. He was one of Henry's best and bluntest advisors.Henry VIII was vain, demanding, spoiled, sex addicted and a man who could be kind but also extremely cruel to those who served him. Mantel has done an excellent job at portraying this key figure of English monarchial history.She is also good at etching Katherine of Aragon, Henry's first wife, and her daughter Mary by Henry. The novel has many minor characters but is lacking in any real humor. After all, what was there to laugh about in those perilous times?Mantel is good at giving us the sounds, smells and sights of life in sixteenth century England. It was a time of religious conflict in the land with Protestants and Roman Catholics at war. New ideas of reformation were appearing with the publication of William Tyndale's English translation of the Bible; Martin Luther's reforms in Germany and the Reformed movement of Calvin, Zwingli and Bullinger being brought to England from abroad. The printing press was a valuable tool in turning England from the Roman Catholic to the Anglican settlement under the rulership of Henry VIII and his religious supporters.One hopes the story of Thomas Cromwell and his friends and enemies will be continued in a sequel to this excellent award winning historical novel! Enjoy!
5 What a read!!  If you are interested in British history, and especially the time of Henry VIII, this is the host highly researched historical fiction of that time that I have ever read.  Not an easy read, but very, very good.
1 The story is mostly written from the perspective of Thomas Cromwell, principal minister to King Henry VIII. The bulk of the novel focuses on the Henry's efforts to be rid of Wife #1 (Katherine) and marry Wife #2 (Anne Boleyn). The main problem is it's written in present tense. This is a tough style to pull off effectively and unfortunately the author managed to make Cromwell and, for that matter, Henry's Court incredibly boring. Also, you were not sure which character was speaking (in turn, internal dialogue wandered).Initially, I was confused why there were glowing reviews then one or two very poor - heed those. It is unfortunate because I think the research and at moments talent were evident, but as is - I would recommend other fictionalized histories of this time period. Philippa Gregory is an author who does a very nice job - (The Constant Princess (Boleyn)orThe Other Boleyn Girlare good examples.
5 What an engrossing book! I felt immersed in the time of Thomas Cromwell and Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn. I haven't read a ton of historical fiction, but what I like here is that the story seems to unfold in that time frame and I get to watch and try to keep up. There is no description (for the reader's benefit) of horses and carriages or ladies' gowns or hairdos, as I've read in other historical novels. There is no backstory offered or explanation of the action - no authorial handholding. You either get it or you don't (or, like me, you keep googling different characters or events as they come up in the narrative). I felt like I was along for the ride, and what a ride.The story is told as third person, but most distinctly through Cromwell's view. Most of the action takes place inside the court or in Cromwell's home; in fact, almost everything occurs indoors, except for a few public burnings and beheadings (gruesome times then!). It probably helps to know something about this time in history: when Henry VIII sought to "undo" his long marriage to Katherine of Aragon (mother of daughter Mary, but, alas, no sons) in order to wed his mistress, Anne Boleyn, younger and presumably more fertile. The machinations needed to bring this about brought in long negotiations with the Church which will not agree to an annulment. There was quite a shake-up about to occur across Europe, with England (namely, the King) resenting Rome's authority and wealth, and Martin Luther posting his own objections to the power of the pope and the Church. This all occurs "offstage" but is discussed often at court.And witness and participant to it all is Thomas Cromwell: bright, self-taught, observant, incessantly hard-working, and climbing rapidly into Henry's most trusted inner circle. I knew next to nothing about him, and apparently, this is a more sympathetic portrait of the man than has been written before. He comes across as smart, dutiful man who mourns the loss of his wife and young daughters, who takes in relatives and wards and apprentices and sees them excel in their ways, who has friends in high places and low, and who is very human. He is also behind-the-scenes mover and shaker.The dialogue is fabulous, and often funny. It's a treat to read it and imagine these confrontations. In fact, all of the writing is stunning, sometimes solemn and poetic, sometimes swift and sarcastic. This would make one very cool, smart film. In the meantime, I'm on the wait list at the library for Bring Up the Bodies.
4 Now I know what all the praise is about and understand how Hilary Mantel could be a double Booker Prize winner. In Wolf Hall she makes old English dialogue and thought processes from the 1500s come alive. A wonderful read that's hard to put down. I highly recommend it.
4 I enjoyed it. The only problem I had was, it was hard to tell sometimes when someone was actually talking and when someone was thinking to themselves. The book needs a little more quotation marks. Other than that I liked it, especially getting a little bit of Thomas Cromwell knowledge. I'll probably end up reading Bringing Up the Bodies soon.
4 I liked this book and its examination of the life and times of Thomas Cromwell. It was interesting to learn how this man from a common background rose to be a confident to King Henry the 8th. However, didn't like the author's style. It was often confusing to try to determine who was speaking and whose observations were being viewed. I know Ms Mantel has won prestigious awards for her writing but much of the time I felt her style was awkward. It was a change without being an improvement.
1 This book is a long slog, even reading on my Kindle which I love.  The story flits around - numerous characters too difficult to keep tabs on; a narrative style which confuses.  I cannot understand how anyone can give it 5 stars.  I think I over paid on its purchase price, even though I almost always enjoy historical fiction.  Readers did not need to have names put to Cromwell's house staff - even his immediate "family" was confusing enough for the reader to follow.  Difficult to understand how this novel receives so many accolades from the literary elite.
4 As a huge Tudor enthusiast, I've been interested in reading Wolf Hall for awhile.  A lot of historical fiction seems to be written about the women of Tudor England, so something about one of the men of the period intrigued me.  Add to that my fascination with Thomas Cromwell in general and you've got a book made for someone like me.Those reading this review are hopefully already familiar with the events of this period.  If not, I will say that I may spoil some things for you, so you may want to stop reading.  However, if you already know about the major points of the story of Anne Boleyn, you'll already be aware of what's coming within the scope of this novel.  Either way, consider yourself warned!Coming in at just over 600 pages, this is a hefty novel, and a big commitment for those who don't know much about these people.  As someone in the book says, half the world seems to be named Thomas, so to avoid that confusion, people are often referred to by their title.  If you don't know who Norfolk, Suffolk, Rochford, Wiltshire, etc. are, you'll find yourself looking them up often.  To add to the confusion, they're not always referred to that way - sometimes Mantel uses their surname instead of, or in addition to, their title.  Fortunately for me, I have spent a ton of time pouring over these kinds of details, so I knew pretty well who these people were already.  If you don't, I would say keep the computer handy so you can ask Wikipedia who you're dealing with.This entire novel is dealing with Cromwell's life and perspective on the things that were happening around him.  The first chapter or so deals with his early life in Putney, but quickly skips to sometime in his adult when he is working for Cardinal Wolsey.  We get to see Wolsey's downfall through Cromwell's eyes, which made it rather difficult depending on how you feel about the Cardinal.  From there, we see Cromwell's spectacular rise to being essentially the most influential man in the kingdom at the time.To me, the whole story is remarkable.  Throughout the novel, various nobelmen bring up Cromwell's low birth, as I'm sure they did in life as it was happening.  It was so rare for someone to come from nothing, with no noble to speak for him, and end up being the King's right hand man in so many situations.  Although the story itself is fictionalized, the overall events taking place are not, and an insight into this incredible man was nothing short of amazing for me.One thing that did make it difficult at times was that it was a bit hard to tell who was speaking, or even if they said something aloud or simply in their head.  There were times that I had to reread sections to be able to figure out who said what.  In the scheme of the whole story, this wasn't too big of a complaint, but it was still a bit annoying to me at times.The book follows Cromwell after Wolsey's downfall through his handling of the King's Great Matter - that is, his divorce from Katherine of Aragon and ultimate marriage to Anne Boleyn.  Katherine has a presence in the novel, but because we join her story while she's already basically been cast aside, we don't have as many interactions with her.  However, Anne is all over this book, and I loved that.  Anne Boleyn is one of my favorite historical figures, so the fact that she was portrayed in a fair light went a long way for me.  So many authors like to take the easy road of making Anne into a mean woman, but Mantel manages to convey that Anne was really just making the best of her situation.  It was especially interesting to see her interactions with Cromwell, and I'm sure this does a lot to set up the events of the following novel.The end of the novel coincides with the trial and end of another famous figure, Sir Thomas More.  There are a lot of interactions between Cromwell and More, two men on opposite sides of this massive event, each with very interesting beliefs and convictions.  Something that I found interesting was that there wasn't a lot of discussion of how Cromwell felt about these situations.  He had to have felt something at the time, but in several situations Mantel has him thinking that what he feels, or believes, hardly matters given his role in the world.  As such, we're given insight into his actions, and how he deals with the people around him, but not with his emotions.  This may grate on some people, but I found it interesting because the sentiment is correct - he's there to do his job for Henry VIII, not talk about his feelings about that job.  Cromwell is consistently portrayed as a fair man, trying to do the best by the people he comes in contact with, even if his ultimate role in their life is to bring about their downfall.
3 One of the minor characters in this novel whose attitude toward and relationship with Thomas Cromwell changes for the better is the Duke of Norfolk. His elaborate curses add a kind of humor to parts of the novel (e.g., "By the bleached bones of Becket!" and "By the thrice-beshitten shroud of Lazarus! The audiobook with Simon Slater as the reader adds evocative tone of voice to the characters, making Cromwell sound above-it-all in most parts. The vocal characterization of Thomas More is particlarly negative. Mantel's negative presentation of the Boleyn family, especially Anne, offers an intriguing counterpoint to some other characterizations. Listening to the novel might reduce some of the reviewers' observations about imprecise pronoun reference, especially after the half-way point. Slater's consistent voices help.
3 Wolf Hall by Hilary Mantel has been on my must-read list ever since it was published in 2009.  While I enjoyed Wolf Hall, I'm not sure that I understand all the hype over this work of historic fiction.Wolf Hall takes place in England during the reign of Henry VIII, although it is seen from the vantage point of Thomas Cromwell.  Cromwell was one of the king's most trusted advisers.  Unlike most men who surrounded Henry, Cromwell was not a man of noble birth.  Despite this, Cromwell brought many talents to the table--he was a learned man who traveled the world and spoke several languages.  He was very capable in both legal and financial matters, and was a good judge of character.  He was shrewd and ambitious--without seeming to be so.  Yet his violent childhood and adult losses made him a kind man.  Cromwell proved his worth as he helped Henry deal with his wish to annul his marriage to Katherine of Aragon and to marry Anne Boleyn.  Wolf Hall ends in 1535 with Queen Anne still trying to provide the king with the son he so desperately desires.I enjoyed Wolf Hall as it rekindled my interest in English history and the monarchy.  Mantel also writes beautifully and respectively in spots.  "When a woman withdraws to give birth the sun may be shining but the shutters of her room are closed so that she can make her own weather.  She is kept in the dark so she can dream.  Her dreams drift her far away, from terra firma to a marshy tract of land, to a landing stage, to a river where a mist closes over the farther bank, and earth and sky are inseparate; there she must embark toward life and death, a muffled figure in the stern directing the oars.  In this vessel prayers are said that men never hear.  Bargains are struck between a woman and her God. The river is tidal;. And between one feather-stroke and the next, her tide may turn."  Unfortunately, Mantel's style of writing drove me made.  She would reference many different men in a paragraph using just "he," but it was often difficult to figure out which "he" she was writing about.  She would also interchange names and titles, which were sometimes difficult to follow.  She would write of Charles or Brandon or Suffolk--but they are all the same man.  At least she provides a Cast of Characters--five pages in all, plus a family tree of the Tudors and the Yorkist Claimants.Although Wolf Hall didn't quite live up to my expectations, it still piqued my interest enough to decide to read more about Thomas Cromwell, Henry VIII and this period of history.
1 As many others have correctly pointed out, the MAIN problem with the book is always trying to figure just who the heck 'he' is?  It usually turns out to be Cromwell, but VERY confusingly, NOT always is.Problem two:  This 'historical novel' is about one of the wildest and wooliest chapters of English, and perhaps World History!!!  So why write a confusing 'historical novel' that is based on what happened, but ISN'T always exactly what DID happen?  Those of us who also read about this period in history books, will get all messed up in the end, trying to remember which were the DIDs and which were the DIDN'Ts.  This bothers me strongly with movies, like 'Backbeat' and 'Nowhere Boy.'  (John Lennon and Henry VIII both fascinate me to no end!  You would laugh if you could see my jam-packed John Lennon/Henry VIII book shelf!!!)  We will watch those two movies once or twice, and then all our memories of what probably DID really happen will get mixed up with all the made-up stuff in both movies that DIDN'T...and there is the dangerous mess. And of course, those who have NOT read the history books, might think this all did?  (The movies and the book!)(And goodess, ALL those horible ficticous movies and TV series about Henry, and especially the garbage the made up about Anne!)I did sort of enjoy trudging through 'Wolf Hall' dispite all the difficulties, as I am so interested in that lump of history.  Hilary M. did bring it to life!!!  I even bicycled next to Wolf Hall in England back in 1979!  (And have visited nearly ALL the place in the book that are still around!  I've been to Hever about 5 times!)  I've been there.  A funny name for the book, but it is was the eventual give-away, that this was just Book 1, and certainly a couple more were probably on the way. Having been to Wolf Hall, and knowing what had happened there, I was initially wondering why the book was called that (since we were always at Whitehall or Hampton Court, etc...), but rather quickly figured out where the story was going and the reason, the fist time Jane Seymour was mentioned!Sorry for only one star, but the book didn't really need to be writen, nor needs to be read.  Go find the good history books!  And go visit Wolf Hall, if it is still there?
5 I bought this book for my mother who is an avid reader of English history and she really enjoyed it.
2 It won an award and lots of people I know like it. I guess Im not them. I feel it plods along like a work mule in no hurry to achieve much in the form of entertainment.
5 It is not often that one reads a book this well written, with characters so well drawn that one can identify them just from the brilliant dialogue. What was distant history comes alive as the reader is given a &#34;fly-on-the-wall&#34; view of how events might have occurred. This book kept me gripped to the very end and I immediately purchased the sequel &#34;Bring up the Bodies&#34;.
5 The bestselling novel by Hilary Mantel brings an astonishing freshness to one of the best-known historical periods and some of its most familiar characters. As it paints its descriptions of Thomas Cromwell and Thomas More in succeeding layers, we get a different look at these key historical figures and the significance of their interplay.And yet, the reader is never clubbed over the head with any anachronistic hints at the import of what is happening. There are no distracting and superfluous details of life in the 16th century to demonstrate how well researched this book is. It is clearly well-researched, because every detail seems to vibrate with authenticity.And the language. Clear, precise, and yet so vigorous. Then there's the wit, the charm, the subtleties of a master novelist who invests these characters and this world with a mesmerizing attraction.Revisionist history is a literary gimmick, of course. We love it for a writer to tell us the other side of the story we think we know. There's John Gardner's Grendel and Gregory Maguire's Wicked -- neither of which I've read -- and Richard Kluger's Sheriff of Nottingham, which I read years ago. We are willing to suspend our disbelief and with a sense of fair play let a writer imagine for us the other side of the story. Beowulf's monster was not so bad, nor the Wicked Witch of the West, and the sheriff of Nottingham was just trying to catch a thief.The historical Cromwell was most likely the cynical and ruthless manipulator that has been portrayed for us through the centuries. Mantel does not overdo her revisionism and turn him into a saint, but does try to understand how he rose from the bottom of society to become Henry VIII's right-hand man. Could he be the loyal, shrewd, witty paragon with a soft spot in his heart for the underprivileged as portrayed in Wolf Hall? Perhaps, but more likely not. Is he a sympathetic character to carry a reader through this history once again -- absolutely.Mantel is not so gentle with Thomas More, whom she strips of his sainthood by portraying him as a pathetic, vain fanatic with many unsympathetic attributes, such as the sadistic pleasure he takes in torturing suspected heretics. It's impossible not to cast Paul Scofield in this role and to play this portrait of him as the "bad Superman" from Superman III. It was equally difficult for me not to see Leo McKern, the character actor who played Cromwell in A Man for All Seasons, in the role of the protagonist. The Hans Holbein portrait even encourages this casting.In the end, they met the same fate, though we have to wait for the sequel to get Mantel's take on Cromwell's fall from power.The picture of Henry VIII -- that complex, seductive figure who so changed history -- is well drawn, but not different from the one most of us have at this point. Ann Boleyn comes in for particularly harsh treatment, but that, too, is not too much of surprise after other recent books.The real hook remains Cromwell himself, with his facinating backstory as an abused blacksmith's son, soldier of fortune, merchant banker and unlikely courtier. The slow, natural tipping of Cromwell and England into Protestantism is particularly well drawn. Perhaps one of the most poignant threads of the novel is the martyrdom of John Frith for the Protestant cause, though the pragmatic Cromwell found it just as pointless as More's principled stand on the oath of succession. It will be interesting to see in the sequel what stand, if any, brings Cromwell to the Tower and his execution. Where can I pre-order the book?
5 This year's winner of the Man Booker Prize is a masterpiece of historical fiction, and is probably the best book I've read this year, andThe novel starts spectacularly, as a young Thomas Cromwell is being beaten nearly to death by his blacksmith father:"So now, get up."Felled, dazed, silent, he has fallen; knocked full length on the cobbles of the yard. His head turns sideways; his eyes are turned inward towards the gate, as if someone might arrive to help him out. One blow, properly placed, could kill him now.Cromwell remains the major character of the novel, as he escapes the wrath of his father, and rises from his humble beginnings to attain fame and fortune abroad in Italy. He becomes the trusted adviser to the powerful Cardinal Thomas Wolsey, who himself is King Henry VIII's right hand man.As the second part of the novel opens, Henry is seeking permission from the Pope to divorce his first wife Katherine, who has yet to bear him a son despite nearly 20 years of marriage. He has his eye on the young Anne Boleyn, whose ego, ambitions and deviousness extend beyond the kingdom and are masterfully portrayed throughout the book. Wolsey fails in his task to have the king's marriage annulled, and is expelled from his lavish residence. Somehow, Cromwell manages to retain loyalty to the cardinal while positioning himself to make himself indispensable to Henry and avoiding the hostile plans of the king's other chief advisers, most notably Thomas More, Thomas Howard and Charles Brandon. Despite the devastating loss of his wife from the sweating sickness epidemic of 1528, and his beloved daughter in the following summer's plague, Cromwell's influence grows, as he also skillfully aligns himself to Anne and the Boleyns while maintaining his own independence and dignity.Due to Cromwell's legal acumen, Parliament grants Henry supremacy over the Church of England, and he becomes the king's chief minister. Henry takes Anne Boleyn as his second wife, but she too is unable to bear him the son that will become the rightful heir to the throne. Dissent spreads throughout and beyond the kingdom, as opponents to the king's rule over the Church and the replacement of the former Queen, including Thomas More, who replaced Wolsey as Lord High Chancellor, are imprisoned and brutally executed.Mantel's ability to place the reader in Tudor England, Henry's court and, most deliciously, Anne Boleyn's company is the most impressive aspect of this novel. A tremendous and essential aid for me was the Cast of Characters at the beginning of the book, which I referred to frequently in the first half of the novel. Wolf Hall clocks in at just over 650 pages, and it somehow seems both larger than that, yet not large enough. It is very readable and quite captivating, especially when taken in 50-100 page leisurely segments. I look forward to giving this another go in the near future, and cannot recommend it highly enough.
3 My main problem with WOLF HALL was grammatical. Hilary Mantel does not have a firm grasp on pronoun agreement. The novel was intended to be written in author limited point of view, where we're in the head of Thomas Cromwell, Henry VIII's principal adviser during the Ann Boleyn controversy. But instead of referring to Cromwell by name she uses "he," or, in rare cases, "he, Cromwell." There are long passages where Cromwell is describing a meeting with Henry VIII or Thomas More, when it's not clear who she's talking about when she refers to "he." Modern writers like to use such stylistic gimmicks as the lack of quotation marks and switching from 3rd person to first between chapters and James Joyce, of course, originator of stream of consciousness, didn`t bother with such silly notions as periods and commas, but none of this stuff bothered me more than Mantel's idiosyncrasy.WOLF HALL is pretty much a character vehicle. Thomas Cromwell was the most gifted man in Henry VIII's court from 1532-1540. According to Mantel, it was his idea to make Henry the head of the church of England and confiscate monastic lands and income. This ploy resulted from Pope Clement's refusal to recognize the dissolution of Henry's marriage to Catherine of Aragon so he could marry Anne Boleyn. We also see Thomas Cromwell at home dealing with the loss of his wife and two daughters during the plague, arranging marriages for his nephew and ward, and trying to get the best possible education for his son, Gregory, who was not that enamored of learning.We also get to eavesdrop on the behind the scenes plotting going on at court. Anne wanted her children to be first in succession, ahead of Mary, Catherine's daughter. The Duke of Norfolk, Anne's uncle, was Cromwell's main nemesis in that the Duke disapproved of the king appointing a layman and son of a blacksmith as one of his councilors. There's also the sad case of Mary Boleyn, whom Cromwell tried to marry off to his nephew Richard. Henry nixed that match because he needed Mary in the bedroom when Anne refused him.Thomas Cromwell was pretty much a thug as a boy with a brutal father; he ran away to become a soldier in France, then got involved in trade in Italy and Holland, ultimately working his way up to Cardinal Wolsey's lawyer and then Henry's adviser. Cromwell comes off as a decent sort of man. Sir Thomas More, the Lord Chancellor after Wolsey, is torturing and executing heretics with a vengeance and Cromwell does his best to save some of them. He also feels sorry for Mary Boleyn and tries to secure a sinecure for her when she marries a wastrel and moves away from court. The book ends with Thomas More's execution, kind of shock since anybody with a firm grasp of English history knows that Cromwell, himself, was executed after Henry fourth marriage, negotiated by Cromwell, went bad.The novel is 532 pages long, but Mantel's choice to end it at More's death makes it seem like she didn't know how to finish it. Cromwell was Wolsey's lawyer and they had a close relationship, and More may have had something to do with his downfall, but Cromwell was not the vindictive sort. He actually tries to help More to some extent. The novel does not build toward More's execution.
5 A superb tale of the rise of Thomas Cromwell on the coat tails of Cardinal Wolsey's fall from grace, the intrigue and the dangers of the Court of Henry V111 and the overriding desire of the king to have male heir. A gripping and intriguing tale that won't let you put the book down until the last page.
2 Hilary Mantel's Wolf Hall paints a portrait of Oliver Cromwell as what seems to me an American hero, that is, Pontius Pilate. On one level the story weaves a winning portrait of Cromwell as a tough-hided man who overcame a child of severe physical abuse by a violent devil of a father, and from 'low'-birth to a blacksmith rose to the highest seat of power beneath King Henry VIII. Cromwell's personal gentleness and self-control contrasts with his violent upbringing and stormy youth, which includes at least one murder along the way. His character, as Mantel describes him, has a manly gravity,  a reserved intelligence, and practical mindset. Like Mantel, Mantel's Cromwell does not believe. This brings me to what appears to me the underlying, symbolic level of the story. Cromwell is not really religious at all, but on the contrary, the sentinel of an ethos militant against ultimate or primal questions. As Chantal Delsol writes, "...contemporary man distrusts doors that are ajar. He deliberately shuts the door to anything that might give meaning to his desire for the absolute. When confronted with the slightest sign of mystery rising to the surface, he stiffens. In other words, he refuses to let himself ask the questions that, because of his human condition, very naturally come into his head. It is as though the questions contained their own taboo" (pg. 197). Cromwell's character serves as an outward symbol of the inner sentinel of this taboo, the knight of the  curative power percieved to be in the suppression of the religious dimension of human beings. It seems that like her character Cromwell, Mantel percieves in religious certitude the real threat.The shadow story specifically focuses on the sexual as the point of confrontation with the absolute. It seems to me specifically a confrontation between a principle of promiscuity and the religiously exalted, Christian moral code of lifelong, monogamous fidelity. This is crafted in such a way as to put promiscuity in the best light. (Granted, Mantel is working with reference to historic personas, but one need not take very seriously her claim in a footnote at the end to be writing history, it seems to me). Although the character Cromwell cheated on his wife Anne with her sister and is reputed to have had a wild past, throughout the novel he is chaste, which makes him a more apt evangel for promiscuity, the outrightness of which might turn moral stomachs despite well-imbedded, urbane casuistries. He does however hold that his "sins are his strengths." The person Mantel chooses to embody the defense of faithful love she draws as a despicable, atrocious man, Thomas More. He still, despite herself, seems to end up having, fascinatingly, more backbone than Cromwell, despite her heaping of opprobrium of sentiment on him. She especially stresses his revolting use of hairshirts which bloody his back and his hand in the torture of Protestant saints. The Protestant saints he crushes are some of them drawn as beetle-like, unctious men but some of them are gentle, feckless and befuddled souls. She nowhere gives them her affirmation. Cromwell's sentiment, it seems, is hers. They should lie rather than die the martyr's death. Her depiction of Thomas More, though post-Protestant, appears to draw on Protestant myths about More's personally torturing saints in his backyard- but I am not sure if I am right about that. I don't have the book with me to check back if she actually does include these. In any case, her character More is sadistic. These are important points because they defame More in the eyes of the reader to such an extent that even though he dies for the unimpeachableness of the doctrine of marital fidelity by earthly authority, the reader is ready to cloud this over and to reckon that whatever the case is, More had it coming. Besides, More does not even love is wife, and forgets her in the days before his execution. The love of Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn is an unstable one. but passionate, if ephemeral, one.  Both of them as drawn have wandering eyes. Catherine, the rejected wife, is faithful but a fridge with an infertile womb and she is also discredited to the reader by her aristocratic pride. Anne Boleyn is a lusty woman.There are ironies underlieing Mantel's portrait. Cromwell, a kind of hero for the common man's straightforward, unpretensious practicality, ends up the main instrument for addressing the anxiety about succession of nobility caused by an infertile wife by prosecuting for the sake of a lie of succession. However, the main point is about the preeminence of the principle of promiscuity over religiously exalted fidelity so this takes backstage. Another irony is that Cromwell rejected his father's violent past and achieves an admirable level of mildness and gentleness personally- he would not have More tortured and disemboweled in front of More's own eyes and such but he becomes the main instrument of its being done. He is just carrying out the law of the present order. He takes exception to More not primarily for his torture of innocents, though he reviles this, but for More's religious certitude. Cromwell's attitude is like that of the Roman governor Pliny. Pliny, not knowing whether to punish Christians for believing alone or only if it is combined with crimes, and not knowing whether to punish those who once professed but later renounced their Christian faith, decided on the following policy: "For the moment this is the line I have taken with all persons brought before me on the charge of being Christians. I have asked them in person if they are Christians, and if they admit it, I repeat the question a second and third time, which a warning of the punishment awaiting them. If they persist, I order them to be led away for execution; for, whatever the nature of their admission, I am convinced that their stubbornness and unshakeable obstinacy ought not to go unpunished" (Pliny, Letters, 10.96). For Cromwell, More's 'stubbornness and unshakeable obstinacy' are the main affront, and they set a bad example for others to follow. Mantel's Cromwell is quintessentially Pontius Pilate. As Richard John Neuhaus writes, "....It has become the mark of hypersophistication in our time to echo the question of Pontius Pilate, 'What is truth?' Pontius Pilate, an urbane Roman governor ever so much more sophisticated by worldly standards than the prisoner who stood before him, was a forerunner of the barbarians who would be- and, according to [Alasdair] MacIntyre, already are- our governors today" (Fr. Richard John Neuhaus, American Babylon: Notes of a Christian Exile, (2009), pgs. 810. Although I do not subscribe to the following author's pacifism, I think he aptly describes something of a counterpoint to Cromwell's, Pliny's and Pilate's procedural prosecution of Christians and their revulsion at Christian intransigency: "Our suffering is messianic- we are martyrs, witnesses- when we are utterly loyal to Jesus Christ the crucified Lord, when we refuse to worship the gods and powers of this world, including their earthly agents, refuse to participate in the ordinary brutality of the normal or the extraordinary brutality of war, refuse to participate in the empty practices and pleasures of lost time...To the wider world we appear as dangerous sectarians and engender suspicion and fear..." (Douglas Harink, Brazos Theological Commentary on the Bible: 1 & 2 Peter, (2009), pg. 117.
5 Henry Holt and Company have to be thanking their lucky stars. The publisher was poised to publish the American edition of Wolf Hall in mid-October. It first appeared last spring in Britain to enthusiastic reviews.But on Oct. 6, the novel won the Booker Prize, given to the best English-language fiction of the year by a citizen of the British Commonwealth. The next day, Mantel bumped Dan Brown's The Lost Symbol as Amazon's top seller. (This week Stephen King, Brown, and Sarah Palin are back on top.) For once, Booker judges, reviewers, and readers are in agreement: Wolf Hall is a solid historical novel that's also a compelling read.Thomas Cromwell emerges from a humble childhood of poverty and abuse to serve Cardinal Wolsey, then replace him as Henry VIII's top advisor after the cardinal's fall. The book centers on 1527-1535, when the king labors to rid himself of Katherine and marry Anne Boleyn after 20 years of marriage to the former, because she has failed to deliver a male heir.Pope Clement opposes the switch, as do most Roman Catholics in England and other crowned heads of Europe. Cromwell must help Henry devise a justification for his desires, and must steer his own course through an array of enemies at court.Wolf Hall is the family home of Jane Seymour - a quiet, plain attendant to the first two queens who will become Henry's third wife. (Mantel has widower Cromwell consider marrying her.)Cromwell is a sharp, multitalented, self-made man who must commit or order unsavory deeds for power and on behalf of his king. Depicted as a villain in A Man For All Seasons, Robert Bolt's play and film about Sir Thomas More, Cromwell's much more interesting here, and surprisingly likable.Mantel's narrative manages to be both rich and lean: there's plenty of detail, but not piled in endless paragraphs. The plot flows swiftly from one development to the next.Dozens of other characters, from the French ambassador to "the other Boleyn girl," flit easily through the story, and they feel as if they could be our contemporaries. Mantel presents them in cool, precise, and current language; there's little archaic verbiage to distract a modern reader.Only the factual details remind us, repeatedly, that this was a very different world, where people who displeased the king could be beheaded, or subject to "conscious public disemboweling, a brazier alight for human entrails."Though there's plenty of humor, the story is suffused with a casual barbarity: a young heretic scholar, burned at the stake, is said to be "shoveled up, his youth, his grace, his learning and his beauty: a compaction of mud, grease, charred bone."Mantel is writing a sequel. Whether it proceeds as far as Cromwell's death in 1540 (he managed to avoid getting on Henry's bad side until the fifth wife, whereupon his severed head was boiled and spiked on London Bridge the day Henry married number six), it will undoubtedly be eagerly welcomed.
1 I don't believe I've ever given a book a one-star rating, but this one deserves it.Suffice it to say I read half of it, and then set it aside. I then saw the old BBC series The Six Wives of Henry VIII, and started this book again. No, it didn't get better the second time around, but I did finish it.The story is about a portion of the life of Thomas Cromwell, one of Henry's key councilors. Curiously, the author seldom refers to Cromwell by name, usually just "he". She will launch into an entire passage or subject, and I believe occasionally a chapter, with "He......." Okay, that's a cute technique, but it leads to a great deal of confusion; on more than one occasion, when Cromwell was interacting with other male characters, she referred to everyone as "he." Sometimes it was a hopeless chore to keep the characters straight.Also, the author jumps around in her story a very great deal, which adds to the confusion.In the end, it seemed like a 500-page confused book that lacks a coherent flow; it just sort of stews along, begging to come to an end.
4 &#34;Wolf Hall: a Novel&#34; delves into the period of English history that coincides with the remarkable rise of Thomas Cromwell, and the decline and fall of the other Thomas, surnamed Moore.  The book is a cut above many of the novels written about the period.  It is not a romance, although Ill-fated Ann Boleyn ultimate seduction of Henry VIII is vividly brought to life as are the discarded, still popular Queen Kathryn and the Princess Mary.  Yet the character that is most vividly brought to life is Thomas Cramer, his probable motivation and his fears.  Whether completely accurate historically or simply a fiction, he lives and breathes in these pages.The author's style takes some getting used to, but once one grasps it, the beauty of the written word shines through.
1 I was so looking forward to reading this book, love historical fiction, and I have a wide range of tolerance for writing styles. Add to that the fact that I almost never give up on a book, we are reading it for my book club this month so I am motivated to finish it, and I have a graduate degree.  I am on page 106 and I'm giving up.  This book is infuriating.  I consistently can't tell if, in the middle of a vignette, we are in the present in the book or in something that happened to the character in the past, nor, repeatedly, can I decipher who the "he" is, to whom Mantel is referring. I think a dialogue might be between two characters, and then I subsequently realize it's not even between those characters.  Sometimes, I'll finish a few sentences and then not even understand what she means.  How this book won any awards is is beyond me.  In an environment with unlimited other amazing books to read, save your money and read something you'll fall in love with!
1 I wanted to like this book about Thomas Cromwell.  It's supposed to be well researched, and for all I know it is.  I know the story, so this book should just be brain candy.  I read two or three books each week, but I tried to slog through this one for about two weeks before giving it up as a bad job.  The author is averse to using proper nouns, quotation marks, or other punctuation to identify speakers or establish the narrative.  Thomas Cromwell is most often "he" or "him".  If there are other men in the scene, they are also "he" or "him".  I had to go back and re-read paragraphs repeatedly to tell who was saying what.  It was painful and tedious.  I bought the next book in the trilogy at the same time as "Wolf Hall".  Both are headed straight to the Friends of the Library sale.
5 Too many books are TV books (written as if their next step was a Movie or TV show). Readers have become used to such books and often, when confronted with a literary work, throw up their hands in disgust (witness the many one star reviews).This book is worth reading because it not only captures the texture of the times, but also presents some truths about people. Cromwell was a man swimming in the political currents of the day and trying to survive with his moral compass still functioning. He tried hard to remain sensible in an era of fanatics and do the right thing. However, unlike More, Cromwell remained grounded in the world of common sense.The interesting ideas presented in this book are not just historical, but relate to our current events. How would Cromwell function as an advisor to our President? He would not shirk from getting his hands dirty, and would not let ideology override common sense, but also would keep the welfare of the people and the country in focus as he made decisions.Cromwell attempted the balance between political ideology and pragmatism. Too much of either and you fall into evil. Too little and your become ineffective.
5 Great historical literature intertwines historical facts with compelling narrative.  The narrative drives the story, but the story is meaningful because of the author's intelligent and educated use of history.  Stilted writing or bad history will each ruin it.  But well done it can make history come alive, and provide a deeper understanding of a time and place in some ways than a simple historical narrative can.  Wolf Hall is an example of the genre at its very best.Set during the reign of Henry VIII, Wolf Hall tells the story of England's break with the Roman Catholic Church, and the events that precipitated it through the eyes of Thomas Cromwell, Master Secretary and chief factotum to the King.  The narrative is compelling and rich in detail.  Anne Boleyn, Thomas More, and a rich array of other characters, historical and fictional, make their appearance, playing key roles.What the book does particularly well is captures the attitudes and views of 16th century Europe, so different from contemporary America.  For example, the death of a close family member is greeted with relative nonchalance.  But from the book's description of disease and illness during the period, we understand why this is natural.  Short life spans and quick deaths were common.  Accordingly, people of the time dealt with it differently than we would.  Relating death through narrative fiction can actually give the reader a better sense of those attitudes than a historian's statements regarding it.  The same can be said for religion, politics, sex, etc.There are a great many comments addressing the syntax of the writing, which can take a little getting used to.  Wolf Hall really is literature and the author has a distinct writing style, which is a little more complex than John Jakes or whomever those giving this book a single star are expecting (I enjoy Jakes but I don't confuse him with literature).  Just assume "he" refers to Cromwell and it actually becomes easy to follow.  If you refer to a book as a "read" I'm guessing you won't find the style of writing to your liking.
2 I love Tudor history and fiction so was excited about this one. BUT, agree with other reviewers that her use of pronouns was confusing. You were never sure what Cromwell was thinking or feeling. TOO LONG. Interesting to learn about Cromwell's family life but his cruelty was downplayed and of course we never get to see his downfall. I skimmed quite a bit just to see what else happened, but could not stay with it. Not a keeper - it goes to a used book store. Disappointing.
5 I probably wouldn't have read this book if not for my book group, but that's what's good about book groups. In this case, I'm so happy I read this novel.The author brings history to life without dumping back story or facts into the text. Instead, she infuses what the reader needs to know into the narrative just as the characters relive the scenarios. The breadth of her research is immense, which only makes her feat of interweaving history with storytelling that much more impressive. I know so much more about the intricacies of English history than I ever learned in school. This book made me think about how we interpret history. My former introduction to this period was the film A Man for All Seasons in which Thomas More is the man of honor and Anne Boleyn the innocent maiden. What a change is here! Somehow I trust Mantel more...I've read about readers' frustrations with the ambiguous "he" pronoun. Thankfully, I "read" the audio version. The narrator is so fantastic in his portrayal of character that I always knew who was on stage and which "he" was talking. The perfect marriage of book and story.As a reader and writer interested in ghosts, I so enjoyed Cromwell's attention to the spirits of dead loved ones. It's so subtle, though, that readers can decide for themselves whether Cromwell is merely dreaming. Later I found out Mantel has written a ghost novel, which I am definitely going to read!
4 I know a lot about Henry VIII. I know quite a bit about his first wife, Katherine. I'd say I know an enormous amount about his second wife, Anne Boleyn. I'd even say I know tons about Thomas More. But what did I really know about Thomas Cromwell? Not much. Until now.So, this book. All about Thomas Cromwell. And Henry. And Katherine. And Anne and More. Even though I generally knew the story, every page, every sentence felt new. An excellent book. I honestly cannot imagine anyone who would not be enthralled with this one.
2 I found this very challenging to focus on and read as a story. If I hadn't known the history I wouldn't have had any idea what was going on.
5 Great read.  Brilliant portrayal of life in the time of Henry VIII.  Reminds one that all times and all strata have their own worries.  At least we do not worry about a real heaven and hell.
4 This is such a great book.  The writing is phenomenal. Looking forward to the sequel.
1 If I could give this book no stars, I would.  I bought this book because it won an award, and was reviewed favorably in our local paper.  Having recently read The Pillars of the Earth, I was interested in reading more about this time in history.  After the initial few pages, I got totally confused as to which character was talking, and who were the cast of characters.  Thank god that I was reading on my Kindle so I could continually use the Wikipedia feature to get some kind of information on the relationships of all the characters.  And thank god, also for the dictionary feature on the Kindle, because some of the words used were ones I have never, ever seen in print.  I'm not sure if the author wanted this to be a somewhat biographical attempt at letting us learn more about Thomas Cromwell, but that certainly was not accomplished.  It is more a very tedious read that shows us England in the time of Henry 8th from a 50,000 foot level.  Way too many details to get any kind of reading flow going. When I finally finished reading this book (it was a real challenge), I read the reviews by real readers and not literary agents or book editors.  Wish I would have done that first.  I enjoyed reading the reviews more than the book, and find it hard to believe that anyone could thoroughly enjoy Wolf Hall.  And what is Wolf Hall anyway???  The place where Jane Seymour, a very minor character in book, lived??
2 If you can deal with the author's writing style this might be a decent (or better book).  Before investing time or money try to borrow a copy long enough to read the first 25 pages.  Some readers are quite take by way the author writes, other including me are not.  First off it is in present tense, to me a high school creative writing class affectation.  Secondly, up on change of scene she jumps right in to narration and dialog using only pronouns and not a him of who is acting or speaking.  She leaves it to the reader to decipher these from contextual hints. (This only exacerbates the historical fact that an absurd number of historical figures really were named Thomas.)  Even though I could wade through all this it just annoys me to the point that the story itself is lost.
3 Read like a Russian novel:every character had multiple names. This an strict adhearance to point of view, lack of authorial direction, made it difficult to follow at times. But intersting view point. Can't believe it won the Booker.
5 I found this book enthralling and fascinating. Thomas Cromwell has always been portrayed as a villain in history books, so it was a real treat to see him described in a sympathetic and understanding way. The writing was careful, yet easy to read. My only regret was that the ended just when the story was getting interesting. I can't wait for the promised sequel.
5 I understand why Mantel won a prize for this novel. She has devised a whole new point of view. She takes the third person point of view (he) and makes it almost the first person point of view (I). It took me some time to get used to this new form and at first I was very confused by the use of the "He" instead of a name, Cromwell or an "I". However, once I got used to it I realised how brilliant it is. she keeps us close to the character and yet feeling objective at the same time. She also explains the complex history of the time very well, yet without simplifying it, a feat in itself.An Advanced Academic Reader: Book 2: The Complete Guide to Learning Reading Comprehension & Strategies (Volume 2)
3 This book centers on Thomas Cromwell, and what was happening while King Henry VIII was trying to dump his first wife and marry the second. But the author's choice to identify Cromwell only as &#34;he&#34; throughout the book makes for a very, very confusing read. I find that I have to re-read sentences and sections in order to figure out what is happening. Other than that, it's very well written. But I may not finish the book.
5 I have been fascinated with Henry VIII since I was a teen swooning over the idea of how romantic the court must have been. Hillary Mantel brings this world alive -- warts and all (if only it was as tame as just warts!) This book has literally been burning up my Kindle because I can't stop reading. While I've seen A Man for All Seasons and Anne of the Thousand Days, it is delightful to delve more deeply into some of the characters I've either read about or seen on screen. What I find fascinating is how little human nature has changed -- money, power, sex -- will get you every time.
2 I liked the theme very much but found the language difficult at times. Some details were not at par with the main story.
3 If you want to read for pleasure and inspiration, you do not need to select a book that is over 650 pages long. To an ordinary reader it seems as if there is some sort of competition amongst writers and publishers to have their books longer and longer. There are some long books that I found difficult to put down, but I do not think that Hilary Mantel's book needed to have been so long. In fact, for me, it would have been more appealing if it had been shorter.As I started reading the book it was gripping and I could see it was going to be difficult not to read it. However, the initial attraction fizzled out and the only way to finish the book, and then go on to other better reading, was to skip sentences and paragraphs. One problem I found was that there was so much detail that the thrust of the main story was sometimes forgotten.The other reason why the book was not so appealing was that there were some gaps. For instance, the reader would have liked to have understood how Cromwell managed to get to the very powerful position that he did, when initially he was potentially out of favour as he supported Cardinal Wolsey. Another example is that there ought to have been  a little more about the significance of Wolfe Hall and why the ending of the book is regarded by many as being what made the book so great. It was assuming more knowledge about the historical background than many readers would have.One must, however, comment of the amount of research Hilary mantel must have done to produce the detail in the book, and her ability to write so much, so well.
2 I agree with the first two reviewers concerning the over abundance of detail.  I found myself constantly referring back to the list of characters and not always finding the object of my search.  A rudimentary map of the English countryside would have been helpful, also.  Just to read that a character is being moved to another castle really doesn't mean very much.  I have read a few books about this period, and I can't say that I learned anything new from this book. I would have liked to learn more about Thomas Cromwell and others in the Tudor court, but I just got lost in all the verbiage.  In fact, I'm quitting at only about two thirds of the way through.  This may be a great book for the serious history student, but not, I think,  for the casual reader.
1 Oh, dear.  They've done it again, given a prize to an unreadable book.  I admit variations in taste exist, but simple things like readability should count for SOMETHING.  This is a turgid book.  You never know which Thomas the author is referring to (Cromwell, Moore, etc.) and that's just for starters.  Half the time you don't even know where the action is taking place.As a fan of all things in British History (Yes, I can name the kings and queens backwards for 500 years), I was interested in another historical novel about a pivotal person in the course of British and religious history.  But this book is abysmal, pedantic, poorly copy edited, etc.Okay, okay, so the author HAS won the Man Booker Prize and I haven't.  That the author finished writing this tome is an accomplishment I cannot shoot down.  And I did learn that Sir Thomas More wasn't the "saint" he was made out to be. But really, unless you are looking to be bored witless, read anything but Wolf Hall.  The phone book is a better read.Sorry to be so scathing, but I call 'em the way I see 'em.
5 Very good story about Thomas Cromwell, Cardinal Woolsey and other dramatic figures of Elizabethan times. The figures are fully fleshed although Woolsey's sloppy personal habits contrasted with Cromwell's skew the narrative. It is clear whom the author prefers. A very rich and rewarding read.
2 This book won major awards.  The topic - Henry VIII, Ann Boleyn, Cromwell, Wolsey, etc. - has been lately done to death, both in print, and film (DVD, cable, etc.) Essentially, there are no plot surprises available - unless you are writing an alternative sci-fi history, a writer is "stuck" with the historical facts.So, the colors and shading you bring to this story is all you have to offer.Unfortunately, Mantel wrote this book in a very difficult style - a strange combination of a limited "present tense" and an implied third person omniscient.  She repeatedly fails to identify characters clearly and consistently,or who is speaking.  One reviewer above noted, "We see through a glass, darkly." One result is that in speaking of the emotional warmth of any character here, one can only conclude,  "Frankly, my dear, I don't give a damn."Which also summarizes how I feel about this book.
5 I am listening to the audio book of this.  Think I like audio books better than reading on my Kindle.  The narrator is super.
4 Hilary Mantel takes on a very popular area in the re-telling of the story of Henry VIII as he moves away from the Catholic church in a bid to divorce his first wife who has not born any male heirs.  The twist in this telling is that the book is told from Thomas Cromwell's point of view.I found the pace of the book and the telling of the story to be top notch.  When you are in a passage, the characters show depth of feeling and understanding.  Nobody in this book is flat or two-dimensional.  I rather enjoy each character from Cromwell, to the King, to the future Queen, all have complex motivations.  While I understand these are purely the imagination of Ms. Mantel, I find that is what makes the book work so well.There are two main drawbacks that I have with this book that are more a matter of style.  The first is that Cromwell is almost always referred to as 'he'.  Even in a scene with 5 men, there is no discrimination in the use of the word, 'he'.  All this makes it very difficult for the reader to know who is saying and doing what.  It seems as if the editor caught onto this fact about halfway through the book because you start to see, &#34;he, Cromwell&#34; written. So bear this in mind as you make your way through.The other small issue is that if you are not a student of English history, it is difficult to figure out who a lot of these characters are.  I spent a lot of time on wikis and websites looking up who was who.  While it probably will help me be a better historian, it detracts from the book as I have to put it down to go look something up.  There is a list of characters at the beginning of the book, which is also helpful.Overall - I enjoyed the book and look forward to the next one.  I can see why the critics like it.
5 This can be a difficult read, but it is so engrossing that it's definitely worth the effort. Fascinating in both the story and writing style.
3 Fine fulfillment, but this book sucks. What is going on here? I realize that this book has won many prizes, and has occasioned a sequel, but I do not get it. Sucks.
5 This is an amazing book.  Although long and dense it is a myriad of joys to read.  Exciting, funny, disturbing and historically fascinating.  I highly recommend this book to almost any type of reader. 5 stars all the way!!
5 "The king spoke, saying to the wise men of Babylon, 'Whoever reads this writing, and tells me its interpretation, shall be clothed with purple and have a chain of gold around his neck; and he shall be the third ruler in the kingdom.'" -- Daniel 5:7 (NKJV)Despite the elaborate praise that has accompanied Wolf Hall, I found it hard to get excited about the prospect of reading once again about Henry the Eighth. Within a few pages, I was totally disarmed by Hilary Mantel's unique story-telling style. She moves away from what historians focus on (the big events and the most powerful people) to emphasize character as portrayed in the little events. As a result, Henry the Eighth is at the edge of this book, rather than in the center.Wolf Hall is primarily the story of Thomas Cromwell and his pursuit of helpful solutions for all those he comes into contact with, provided in the context of utter loyalty . . . first to Cardinal Wolsey and later to Henry the Eighth, Anne Boleyn, and those who depend on Cromwell.The book is so wonderfully subtle that I found myself rereading many sections, smiling at the various ways that story threads are developed (usually in several ways, overtly and subtly, at the same time). As a result, the story is fresh, new, and very interesting both for content and style.After reading about half the book, I had an epiphany . . . This book was also designed to be improved by being read aloud, as are all of the best novels. I managed to find a copy of Simon Slater's reading of the unabridged version and was wonderfully rewarded by listening to what I had just read. It was four times better as a recording than in my silent reading.I recommend you forget reading the book and just listen to it instead. You'll be amazed.Was I convinced by her portrayal of Thomas Cromwell? I don't know the historical record well enough to have an opinion. I certainly ended up with a revised view of Sir Thomas More (having been a fan of "A Man for All Seasons" as a lad) after thinking about him in the context of the Reformation.Listen and be filled with joy.
5 The story of Thomas Cromwell as told from his point of view is certainly more favorable than others I have read. I found it a bit too detailed and thereby difficult to figure out where in history I was. Nonetheless, this is so well written and thoughtful and I look forward to mantel's continuation novel. Highly recommend.
1 Wooden, opaque prose seemingly written with deliberate intent to obscure what should have been a fascinating, juicy story.
3 Normally I love historical fiction, but this one is a tough read. Primarily because of the style in which it is written, with little or no indication as to when the main character, Thomas Cromwell, speaks. It just...happens. Several times I had to go back a paragraph or two so I could figure out who exactly was talking.I am still intrigued enough, though, that I will be purchasing the sequel
5 Wolf Hall is a masterfully written, sardonically toned peek into the world of political intrigue, social transformation and religious chaos of England in the mid-16th century.  Told through the eyes of Henry VIII's beguiling henchman, Thomas Moore, Mantel captures in equal measure the charms and terrors of life in a society still dominated by oligarchy and waiting patiently for the rule of law to take on some meaning.  In this, it is suspiciously like our own times, and men like Moore (a very American type of protagonist)do manage to break into the upper ranks, but often remain unwittingly dependent on the whims of those who really wield the power.  One may be tempted to read Wolf Hall just as a piece of historical fiction (of which it is a very good example), but, like other work by Mantel, its symbolic message is clearly woven through the brilliantly formed paragraphs of flowing dialogue:  beware of the lovely web of fame and power; even the brightest of us can be mesmerized by the jewelled spider.
3 Although well done and interesting, this book in no way measures up to all the hype. Others have gotten a lot more detailed in their reviews than I have the time or inclination for. I must say, however, that the one quirk that really bothered me about this book was that Mantel rarely identifies her thinker or speaker; the narrative always says "he," which can refer to anyone in the scene. Or even if there is a name attached to a thought or dialogue, it's invariably Thomas, Henry, or William. And pretty much everyone back in those days was named one of these three names. I have no idea if this lack of clarity is a pretension, "craft," or just shoddy writing. But it is unendingly, maddeningly cumbersome to have to go back and reread to try to figure out who is speaking or thinking. After a while, I just decided to relax and not worry about assigning narrative to character. Go figure.That said, the book is arresting, enjoyable, and entertaining. The time period is always fascinating, and one certainly gets a different portrait of Cromwell and More than heretofore offered. How much of the portrait is apocryphal or fabricated, I cannot say. In sum, a good read, but no masterpeice, so do not expect one.
5 This was a joy to read. Henry VIII, Anne Boleyn, Thomas More, Thomas Cromwell, Catherine of Aragon&#8212;all brought to nuanced and exciting life by this skilled author. The reader is transported to  sixteenth century England with all its sights, sounds, and intrigues!
4 This seems to be a very good historical novel in many ways.  Characters are flesh and blood and incidents factual.  I feel this book is not all that easy to read because the author persists in using the undefined pronoun 'he' lavishly throughout.  Much of the time it refers to Cromwell, the main character, but not always.  Every time 'he' is used I have to stop to figure out who she(!) is referring to which interrupts the flow of the story.We think we live in difficult times?!
3 I always try to finish what I start, but I have found with novels that if I'm not enjoying it and I've gotten more than halfway through I need to just move on.  This was hard to accept as I paid for it, so I want to finish it, but I've learned that my time is valuable and if I'm not enjoying that time, I need to try something else.  I had read so many wonderful reviews for this book and for the sequel so wanted to read this one first and I do usually enjoy historical fiction.  But it had way too many characters, and I could just never get into the book or connect with the characters.  So I've given up halfway through which is hard to admit but truthful.
5 Wolf Hall takes place during the reign of Henry the VIII but the star of this show is Thomas Cromwell. Cromwell was the lowborn son of a blacksmith who managed to rise to the court of Henry the VIII. The simple reason being Cromwell knew when to speak and when to listen. His early experiences in life showed him the way of the world and he paid full attention. Many may know the basics of the story of Henry's clash with the Catholic Church his wives and his struggle to make an heir. Mantel brings the intricacies of the times and characters to vivid life. The writing is beautiful and I found myself reading some sections over for the emotion and imagery. One part that comes to mind is the arrest of Cardinal Wolsey (pg 213 -218 in hardcover) which was heartbreakingly sad but lovely. A wonderful and dense novel of that takes some focus.There are many characters which made reference to the Cast of Characters list found in the front very necessary. This novel took me 2 weeks to finish but was worth every minute. From the reviews it seems that this book is not for everyone. I think if you want a light read that you can polish off while watching TV this is not it. Wolf Hall demands all of your attention and I think deserves it. I'm so glad that authors like Mantel write books like Wolf Hall.
5 this is a great book! you need to read it slowly as it can get confusing. there is a chart at the beginning which helps with keeping all characters straight. loved this story.
5 I would recommend this book to anyone who likes to read a well-written book. If you like historical fiction, all the better. An excellent antidote to A Man For All Seasons.
5 I had read a review of this novel in the New York Times and decided to buy it. I have not been disappointed. The writing is absolutely wonderful, and the story about the English Royalty at the time of Henry VIII is captivating. I would recommend this book to everyone.Stan Warchaizer
5 I followed a  friend's advice and discovered this very fascinating book.. I usually do not read historical fiction so this was an eye opener, but I found it absolutely fascinating.. I couldn't wait to get home, sit down, and read it.. One does need to concentrate as there are many characters in this novel, but it is a fascinating account of  what went on in that explosive period  when Henry V111 wants to annul his marriage of twenty years and marry Anne Boleyn..
4 Here is a tale of saints and scoundrels. Which is which, Hilary Mantel leaves to the reader to decide in her new book about the great saga of Henry VIII."Wolf Hall" takes Henry VIII and his fight to wed Anne Boleyn to an entirely new level. How is this possible when so many writers and film makers have already handled the story? Mantel chooses to humanize Thomas Cromwell, allowing him to tell his story through first person narration. Cromwell comes to us as a scrappy, tough street boy, growing into a scrappy, tough, brilliant politician who can balance the powers that try to pull him apart. He is a well-read thinker, someone who is ultimately loyal to Cardinal Wolsey and a good match for the wits of Sir Thomas More.Cromwell is no more vicious than those who surround him: the King, Anne Boleyn, and in this version, a not so saintly Thomas More.The scholarship in this work does not get in the way of the story. The thoughts of the various and constant schemers, everyone equally endangered, are portrayed, pulling our hopes back and forth among the parties. In the end if there is a lesson, it is that we are lucky not to live in Tudor England, though,"each day is buoyant with possibilities." Truly, for me, each page of this book was a delight of possibility though I know the history well enough. Four stars only for occasional excess.
5 From the first page you are in the land of the free indirect narrative style.  You are inside the mind and life of Thomas Cromwell, written here as perhaps the most challengingly complex character to be found in historical fiction of the Tudor period.  All preceding Tudor historical fiction is mere context for the story.  My other favorite books of recent years include Robert Bola&ntilde;o's "The Savage Detectives" and "2666". "Wolf Hall" rivals Bola&ntilde;o for pushing a literary style.  Detail is rendered intricately where it advances the involvement of the reader, barely at all at other times.  You emerge from a paragraph of detail fully identifying with the character for whom it applies.  Other times reading closely you find yourself in the equivalent of a quickly browsed current front page.  If Malcolm Lowry immersed us in the raw delusions of the alcoholic, Hillary Mantel in "Wolf Hall" permits us the inner monologue of a truly cagy, intellectual, a truly powerful person at a time when power one moment could turn into a visit to the Tower the same night.
3 I read this book through and even found myself Googling the historic figures. I spent a whole session looking at Hans Holbein the Younger's portraits of many of the key players in this engrossing novel.Unfortunately, there was one distracting conceit that made the book more of a wade-through than it could have been: Cromwell is always referred to in the second person. Even when several men are in the scene and are conversing, Mantel resorts to parentheses to clarify who is talking. Why not be out with it: Cromwell said. More said. Norfolk said. It is non-invasive and time-honored.Another problem with this lengthy novel is the overabundance of players. Frequently writers choose to combine minor characters, particularly when their distinction does nothing to move the story along. While it is impressive that Mantel could keep track of all of the endless Tom, Dick and Harry's in this intricately plotted work, I as the reader could not, and now that the book is finished, I regret the many times I consulted the book's Cast of Characters. These distinctions did nothing to enrich Cromwell's character, nor did they amount to anything in terms of entertaining subplots. As I was reading, I cared far too much who was who--in the end, it was unnecessary and did not prove to enrich my understanding of the main figures' motives or their fate.And lastly, I was left curious about the decision as to how much of the events to include.  Why make a story focus on Cromwell, yet begin and end with the fate of other historic figures? Why not include Ann Boleyn's fate? In fact, why not cover Cromwell's downfall? The conclusion of this book made for a letdown, and puzzlement as to the author's sense of what makes for a good story.The book was interesting to read, and fascinating in its historic detail and clarification of the complicated forces in play during England's break from the Pope and the events leading up to Henry VIII's establishment as head of the church in England. Mantel is undeniably a gifted writer. Unfortunately, the work as a whole is less than compelling.
5 Definately a 5 star book!Whenever I read an absolutely fabulous book I want to read everything that the author has written. Wolf Hall is one of those. So I enjoyed reading a wonderful novel and I have a new favorite author! Can't wait to read the sequel! Hilary Mantel has a host of other offerings and I intend to read them all. If you like historical novels-get this one!By the way, I was chatting with a woman at lunch and she asked me if I liked my Kindle. I said yes, especially when reading a longer book (Kindle weighs so much less). This lady shared with me that she also had a Kindle but didn't use it. As we chatted some more I found out that one problem she was having was the small type. I immediately showed her how to change font size and told her not to give up on her reader. My point is if you run into this type of issue extend yourself to help another so they can enjoy their reader as much as you do yours.
5 This long, complex novel engages from the first page, when an adolescent Cromwell is beaten almost to death by his drunken father. History lives in this astounding gift to readers
5 My father was reading this book on his Kindle when I went to visit my parents last month.  He was enjoying reading it, so since I usually like what he likes, I downloaded Wolf Hall onto my Kindle.  I started reading and reading and reading! Because you don't really know how long a book is when you are using a Kindle, I realized belatedly what a long book it is!  I am only about 55% through it, but I have enjoyed it quite a bit.  Highly recommended, especially if you have been to London and visited the Tower and historical landmarks.  Wolf Hall really brings Henry VIII and the history to life. I found it interesting to get another viewpoint on the various characters and personalities.  You can't help but love Thomas Cromwell. I actually love historical fiction and this book is no exception.  Don't let the length scare you off, it is great reading.
5 Inspired me to read the following book &#34;Bring Down the Bodies&#34; and to also find a book on Richard III to read next.
5 When I first received my copy of this book, I was a little daunted by it. I'd hear it was "literary"--whatever that means--plus, it's written in the present tense, which I usually detest in a novel. But the more I read this book, the more I liked it. It's really hard to do this kind of expansive novel justice, so I'm going to try my best to describe why I liked it so much.Wolf Hall is the story of Thomas Cromwell, lawyer and diplomat, who spent many years in the service of Henry VIII, eventually helping the king secure his divorce from Katherine of Aragon. Everyone with even a passing knowledge of English history knows the story of Henry and his six wives, and the dissolution of his marriage to Katherine of Aragon; and countless novels have been written about him. For a long time I was all "Tudored" out, because all fiction about the period seemed to be derivative. Wolf Hall breaks the mold by not being another bodice-ripper/romance, and telling Henry's story from a different perspective. Its subject matter is a little more serious, but not so much that it drags the story down.It's a well-written novel; and though the politics of the time period are confusing, Mantel presents them in a way that would interest even the casual reader. I'd never known much about Cromwell, and it was intriguing to me to read a fictional account of him. I also found his sarcasm and cynicism wonderful--and amazing, for someone living and working with Henry (and I also loved Cromwell's nicknames for people; he calls the princess Mary "the talking shrimp" and Thomas Wriothsley ""Call me Risley").It's a slow read; it took me the better part of a week to complete, but in the end the effort was worth it. For a novel that's focused on someone whose entire life focused on the king, the king appears surprisingly little. It's this unusual approach to the Tudors that makes this such an appealing novel. Mantel's excessive use of pronouns can be confusing, though you can probably assume that most of the time "he" refers to Cromwell himself. Also, I didn't really understand the significance of the title, since Wolf Hall doesn't play much of a role in this book. Still, this was the kind of book that I couldn't stop reading; the kind of book that really gets you engrossed in a time and place.
5 This book shows the possibilities of historical fiction. Instead of being a boring, predictable bodice ripper or a fast paced political thriller, it is a probing psychological study of a misunderstood historical figure. By the end of this book we know so much about Cromwell, his family, his associates and his enemies, what follows after that visit to Wolf Hall isn't a surprise.
3 Everyone told me to read this novel and I was happy to do so, since I really enjoyed the Shotime series "The Tudors". As I started reading, however, I found that there was really nothing in the story that I did not already know. It's an odd feeling to read a book where you already know the story and how it ends, but it did help me to focus more on how the story was being told in this particular version by Ms. Mantel. By the end of the book, however, I could conclude only that this rendition is okay. I liked it. I didn't think it was great or especially enlightening, didn't contain any new insights or evolve the story-telling genre of historical fiction. And, frankly, I enjoyed the Shotime series a lot more as a method of learning about Henry VIII. So, I would skip this book and go right to the DVD player.
4 The characters of Thomas Cromwell, Henry VIII, Anne Boleyn are very well rounded and beautifully drawn. Minor characters in the novel are also treated with care.The only flaw if one can call it that is that sometimes it is difficult to make out who is the narrator or  the speaker.It is a page turner and one does not like to lay it aside.
5 Thomas Cromwell has always been a quite shadowy figure in my Tudor studies. This historical novel fleshes out a very misunderstood major player on Henry VIII's stage. My attention was riveted to the story,  although, like the Titanic, I knew the ultimate outcome before beginning. This alone places the storyteller at a great disadvantage and it is to Dr. Mantel's literary credit, that ones does not feel a sense of ultimate doom pervading each character's story.Vocabulary, grammar and sentence structure fall back to older times as well. I am now deeply involved in the 2nd book regarding Cromwell and Anne Boleyn/Jane Seymour. I am continually fascinated by the fleshing out the author gives to daily life in the 1530's! Truly I never gave a thought, in over 35 years of arduous study of these times, to explicit Royal toilet practices! Why would I? And yet, one discovers another layer to the rose/onion that was Henry Tudor and how his bodily excretements were treated and by whom! Privy Council indeed! Likewise we discover Queen Anne's character through the eyes of those who serve her, observe her or fail to swerve her! For the serious history student, for the lover of the King Who Dared to Dare, and for anyone who loves to see life lived in the Large, this book, and anything written by its author,cannot be missed! It is deserving of every award it has already earned and as many more as can be applied to it!
2 Sadly I have to agree with the other reviewers who say this is an interesting subject, but Mantel's writing style to me is unreadable.  I was constantly trying to figure out to whom she was referring, and her use of quotation marks was sporadic at best.  The story confusingly jumped around a bit in time, as well, and tended to lag a bit.  I fear I must conclude that this was a good story let down by the author's ponderous style.
1 Very hard to get into. Writing style is confusing and doesn't help. Just not my kind of book. I know a lot of other people loved it.
4 Wolf Hall addresses a period of Henry VIII's rule. It concentrates more on the personal interactions of the characters than others I've read which use this period for their stories. As it is different, it is interesting.
2 Sorry, folks, I'm sure this was a rip-roaring read for those who like such things, but the first 50 pages were such a violent, boring slog that I just couldn't get going.  And I'm just not the one to read any book that has to have a many-paged list of characters to keep everyone straight.  I understand from my Book Club that this was quite exciting once it got going, but not for me. Yes, I know it won the Booker Prize.
5 I just finished reading Wolf Hall by Hilary Mantel, whose historic and descriptive details are so rich that I almost wanted to check the caloric content of the book. I am on my way to get a Kindle Kopy of one of her lesser known books,,,that style didn't just happen overnight.
3 I am very interested in the times of the Tudors, the intrigue at court, and the fascinating personalities of the 16th Century. Unfortunately, Wolf Hall only partially lives up to my expectations. The novel seems very well researched historically, with a vivid feeling of London around 1535. You get a real sense of how the people lived, what they wore, what they ate, who was in the royal court, and the lives of the courtesans behind the scenes. However, you quickly get lost in too much detail, jumping back and forth between characters in a what I can only characterize as stream of consciousness writing. Mantel could have tightened the stories, giving more strength and impact to the powerful personalities that she lays before us.
2 I disliked this book intensely.  I confess I couldn't read it very attentively, but held on out of aneurotic obsession with finishing what I begin--and, as an old English major, out of respect for thelearned ladies and gentlemen who have bestowed upon it so many accolades and prizes.  Although I haveno pretensions to being an historian, I have delved into some very reputable studies of the Tudors andtheir times, and it seems to me that almost all of this author's characterizations are just 'way off thewall...How can anyone want to make a hero out of Thomas Cromwell, of all people?  And though ThomasMore probably didn't deserve to be made a saint, to treat him as this author does seems to me unconscionable.As for Ms. Mantel's writing style, I found it irritating, deliberately convoluted, and affected in theextreme.  For the first l50 pages, I struggled with the problem of never knowing who was speaking.  And then,finally, I broke the code:  "he" was always going to be Cromwell!  Well, Eureka and Golly-Gee, and pleasegive me a break from such gamesmanship.
5 extremeley well written and interesting, but  also very dense... takes some concentration to get through. but so beautifully crafted and characters so real, well worth the effort.
4 I will admit, it has been interesting to read about Cromwell is something other than his usual demonized self. Although his enemies in this book (mainly Gardiner and More) have certainly done their best. It is also interesting seeing Thomas More pictured as something other than a Saint, although I think he has been made one by the Catholic Church. In this book Thomas Cromwell is a person, who cares for his family and friends, though many, even his enemies would admit that. But this book also shows his intimidating side, that he will bully and cajole, if he cannot win you over with reason.A couple of things annoyed me though. This book shows him irritatingly loyal, almost obsessed with Wolsey. I know he remained his friend throughout his downfall but she is laying it on a little thick here, and totally has Wolsey pegged for an innocent victim, which I think we can all agree is stretching it a bit. In some places her writing reminds me of David Starkey (Six Wives...), with so much  detail it gives you a headache. I felt cheated that the book ended with More's death and not Anne's downfall, but apparently there is to be a sequel so bring it!!!All in all, a good book. She has taken  history and teased it a bit... to make it entertaining. She shows Cromwell not worshipping Henry (that honor went to Wolsey) but that there was a kingdom to be run and that someone had to do it, because Henry clearly wasn't up to the job, having left it to Alter Rex for so long, and this shows beautifully that governing and being king are not necessarily the same thing.
4 Love the way Mantel's  characters come to life. I honesty now feel for Thomas Cromwelland for those who were around Henry's court.
2 I am a huge fan of the Tudor era and have read many books based on different characters.  Even given my knowledge in the subject, I had a VERY hard time following this book.  The constant use of the pronoun "he" never let you know who the author was talking about.  I started to assume that every time I read "he" I should think it was Cromwell but that was not always the case.  Also, the story didn't flow.  I sentences seemed disjointed from one to the next.  The whole book just seemed like random thoughts and words.  I was forcing myself to finish the book and don't think I can tackle the second in the series.
5 The tittle itself is brilliant. I am familiar with the part of the history of England in which King Henry VIII, failing to get the Pope to anul his marriage to Catarina de Arago, in order to marry Anne Boleyn, proclame himself chief of the church of England, separating it from Rome, gets the anulment and marries Anne Boleyn as he so much desired. But still I had no idea about what was Wolf Hall and when the words come up for the first time in the book, in about one third of it, I realized what it menas and thought: this is genius.The book is very well written. I must confess it took me three attempts of reading in order to get into the story and flow with the rithm. At the first time, I didn't get engaged with the story, found the style difficult to read and had a hard time keeping up with the caracthers. There were times when I had no idea who was saying what. I gave up when I was in page 50. Next time I read till page 150 and thought: life is too short. But then, after a visit to England, to Stratford Upon-Avon, to the Globe Theather in London and reading other books about elisabethan England, I decided to give it another try. I am glad I did because I got engaged and caught in the flow of the narrative and into the plot itself.The book tells the struggle of Henry VI to get his wedding to Catarina de ARago anuled by the Pope and marry Anne Boleyn and meanwhile he breaks up with Rome and becomes chief of the Church of England, all that through the eyes of Thomas Cromwell.The book is very well written. It makes you understand why Thomas Crowell does what he does, even when he lies, betrays, threatens. At the same time you the book makes you feel like you were inside his head, the book also makes you feel like an impartial witness, watching all that is happening from a detached point of view, without judging.A really great book. No wonder Hilary Mantel won so many prizes.
5 This will increase and add to the debate about what were Cromwell's ambitions.  Was it to be the Kingmaker or the King?
3 I found the book difficult to follow on Kindle.  I've come to understand, based on reviews of the hard copy, that the paper version includes charts or family trees which are lacking in the Kindle version.  As a result, it is hard to follow on Kindle who the author is referring to much of the time when she uses the pronoun &#34;he.&#34;  Is that Cromwell?  Someone else?  Also, because people are referred to by their name some of the time and their titles at other times, it becomes impossible to know who is doing what without a the missing &#34;roadmap.&#34;  This made the Kindle version a difficult and frustrating read.
3 I was drawn in instantly by the opening scene of Wolf Hall, in which a young Thomas Cromwell lies bleeding, beaten half to death by his monster of a father. It seemed to promise a vividly dramatic recreation of Tudor England. I have already read a good many books, fictional and non-fictional, about this period, but you can never have too much Henry VIII, Wolsey, and More... or so I thought until I got deeper into Wolf Hall, Hilary Mantel's Booker Prize-winning take on the period. I bogged down around page 100, soldiered on until page 200, then gave up the battle and skimmed the rest. Therefore my opinion may be taken with a pinch of salt, but here it is for what it's worth.Mantel's style is determinedly literary. The book is written in present tense, in a meandering, descriptive register that allows the author to share her research into the period with us for pages on end. The point of view floats very high behind Thomas Cromwell, the hero of the piece, and often detaches from the story altogether to address the reader as "you" or draw the audience into a cozy "us." Here is where it gets confusing: Mantel's "us" is the imaginary "us" of Tudor England. The reader is addressed as if he or she lived in Tudor England, too. Yet, at cross purposes with this technique that seems designed to immerse us fully in history, the book is packed with too much information, surely, for even a lover, fighter, lawyer, councillor, businessman, loving father, autodidact math genius, and Latin scholar like Mantel's Cromwell to have known.This is Tudor England with the benefit of four hundred years of hindsight, and a decidedly 21st-century take on the great problems of the period. The imminent break with Rome, the "Papist" / "reformer" rift through English society, Henry's brutal consolidation of domestic power as part of the wider trend towards absolute monarchy... it's all here, but as seen through the eyes of a judiciously agnostic Cromwell, it comes across as one Machiavellian speculative conversation after another, drained of significance. Mantel's remote authorial voice does not offer any emotional connection to the characters. It doesn't help, either, that the story is not told chronologically, but jumps around in time. So, ironically, I suspect a reader who didn't already have a good grasp of the history would be totally lost.A historical novel cannot provide the usual kind of suspense, since we already know how it's going to end. There are ways for authors to get around this: to choose a very minor character and make us care, or foreground a fictional plot and have the history going on off-stage, for example. Mantel seems to have taken a new route by forgoing suspense altogether (sorry, that may be uncalled-for, but it's how I really felt while reading). Instead, she substitutes descriptions. Lots and lots of descriptions. I expect that's why this book won the Booker Prize, but it didn't work for me.Ultimately, for all the wealth of detail and fleshed-out historical figures, for all the pages lavished on Thomas Cromwell's childhood and family life, I never got a handle on him, much less on the more well-known personages who appear. Maybe this was Mantel's whole point: that we cannot know the souls of historical figures, that all we can do is delineate facts with human-shaped voids in the center, or something like that. OK, but I'd rather have had a bit more swashbuckling.Bottom line? This could work for you if you really like literary devices and descriptive passages. If you're looking for Tudor England with adventure and psychological insight, I recommend C. J. Sansom's excellent, gripping Matthew Shardlake novels. They also feature Cromwell, Wolsey, and Henry VIII, and they're just better all around than Wolf Hall. They are notionally detective stories, though, so I guess they'll never be considered for literary prizes.
1 I should have read more of the negative reviews before I purchased this book.  I was looking forward to reading about the Tudor era from a totally different point of view, that of Thomas cromwell, than what has been done to death but this was not it! This book is an award winner and a NY Times bestseller so I gave it the benefit of the doubt.  I have read abut 1/3 of it and I am going to stop torturing myself. Other reviewers have noted how this is written in the present tense, which for me would have been fine, but the constant use of the pronoun "he" to refer to Cromwell was very confusing, especially when "he" could have referred to several other characters in the same sentence or paragraph.  It is written in a very disjointed fashion and as of page 163, I am moving on to other books, which hopefully have a GOOD, WELL-WRITTEN STORY!  This is not written as a story.  It appears to be, rather, the author's projection of her own thoughts on what Cromwell was and was not thinking.  And very little of has it do with the history of the times - just alot of random phrases.  Go to the dentist instead of reading this - it's less torture.
2 Overrated historical fiction traverses well-trodden ground. The British love it for its anti-Catholicism and portrait of More as a fascist. Mantel's depiction of Cromwell is as much fiction as fact: not that much is known of him. According to her, Cromwell ran the Tudor show while Henry the 8th stuffed himself with wives and pork pies. See Holbein's potrait in the Frick gallery for an eyewitness testimony. Not quite so flattering, to say the least.
3 I enjoyed this book, but it's kind of good I sort of knew the story.  It was difficult to follow the dialogue because the author expected you to know the speaker from context...and sometimes there wasn't enough context.  The imagery was excellent--I felt like I was in England.  An interesting conceit to tell the story through Cromwell's eyes, and a much different than the usual take on Thomas More.  It's odd that it's entitled Wolf Hall, because (spoiler!?) it ends as they plan to go to Wolf Hall.  Maybe "To Wolf Hall!" would have been more accurate.  But the publisher didn't ask me.  Not sure if I'll take up the sequel.
5 Takes a bit getting used to.  &#34;Who says what&#34; not entirely clear until one gets the hang of it as Mantel writes it.  My enjoyment increased as I read it--rarely more than 20 or 30 minutes a day so it took me a while.
5 This book is great for history lovers.  The saga of Henry and his 6 wives is seen from a new viewpoint.
3 Wolf Hall is the meticulously researched account of Thomas Cromwell, secretary to Henry VIII, during Henry's split with the Church of Rome and his obsession with Anne Boleyn.  I found the account fascinating BUT because the confusing use of pronouns requires one to read and re-read passages multiple times to understand who is thinking/speaking at any given time, I am unlikely to recommend it to others.  There is simply no excuse for not properly editing a book of this magnitude and complexity.  What a shame!
3 Historical fiction can take several approaches. For example--it can provide a picture of the people and society of a past era, while inserting a totally fictitious story; it can examine the life of a famous person from the past, providing psychological insight as to motivations; it can take specific historical events and people, extending the reader's understanding of what happened and why.Author Hilary Mantel takes the last approach. This novel examines England in the 1520s and 1530s, as Henry VIII seeks to annul his marriage to Katherine (who has produced no male heirs) and marry Anne Boleyn. The story is told from the viewpoint of Thomas Cromwell, the commoner son of a brutal blacksmith who rises to the position of the King's closest adviser.Political maneuvering takes center stage here, with few of the details included which can immerse the reader in a past time and place. Cromwell is the only character into which the reader gains psychological insight, and that is rather limited. This is mainly the story of the wheelings-and-dealings involved in statecraft, which have perhaps not changed that much, except in the details, through the many years.This novel was strangely fascinating, despite its length (650 pages), mainly because of its very clever dialogue (although I can't believe all those people were really that funny and satirical), and because of its alternative interpretation of events and characters (differing markedly from the ideas I had always held, which were taken primarily from other historical novels and movies).One strange and disturbing aspect of the novel was Mantel's method of presenting it. It is told in present tense, first person, through the eyes of Cromwell. Except, the author does not use "I" when telling the story. Instead she uses "he" (where any other writer would use "I"), and this results in great confusion as to pronoun reference, especially in conversations. This style took me away from total immersion in the book and reminded me, again and again, that I was reading a made-up story.Wolf Hall won England's 2009 Man Booker Prize, and I have almost always been impressed by the quality of the books which have won. I was not quite so impressed by this one.Recommended for those who really, really like historical fiction.
4 Hilary Mantell&#8217;s Wolf Hall begins with Thomas Cromwell being viciously beaten by his abusive father Walter a blacksmith, innkeeper and brewer of indifferent ale. Fourteen pages later he is assistant to the Cardinal of York. I suppose this betokens the fact that little is known of what transpired between but even so quite a leap wouldn&#8217;t you say.Referred to is the fact that Cardinal Wolsey, in seeming a celibate priest has a son as does Thomas, but the king does not and wants his marriage of 18 years annulled. The facts here are a matter of history, it is Mantell&#8217;s fresh approach to them that makes this book worth the reading.There are a parcel of Thomases in this book:Thomas CromwellThomas WolseyThomas MoreThomas BoleynThomas HowardThomas CranmerThomas SeymourThomas WyattThomas AverySt Thomas a BecketJust to name some of them. As is commented in the text keeping them all straight is no small matter. Mantell&#8217;s writing style style requires one to remain diligently alert or it is easy to lose track of who is talking.Reading about the politics, the horsetrading, and machinations of Thomas Wolsey it is difficult to remember that as Archbishop of York and a Cardinal he is a Holy Catholic Priest. With all his dirty dealings and hair-splitting he seems more a politician than a holy man. Cromwell is a lawyer and a businessman and does scutwork for the Cardinal.With the fall of Wolsey Cromwell takes his place as the story progresses. As the book ends Sir Thomas More is beheaded and Cromwell is headed toward Wolf Hall. It is 1535 and Ann Boleyn  has fallen out of favour with Henry her husband and her trials are about to begin. Cromwell himself has but 5 more years before he too loses Henry&#8217;s favour and his own life. Before that time Mantel will spin two more books.This is a work of fiction that relates historic facts. As is often the case fiction is truer to life and more readable and engaging than bald facts. Be warned that the book makes no bones about prelates and kings alike being self-serving and less than devote. It was a violent age and public burnings at the stake, beheadings, and disembowelings were public sport.
4 The writing style pulls no punches and offers little hand-holding. You're on your own and need to tread carefully in order to make your way through this look into 16th century England. We forget (or never knew) the sophisticated politics and scheming of the era. We soon discover the real-world consequences brought about by vain, jealous, self-protective, selfish men and women of immense power in an era that re-shaped the western world into one we recognize today.
1 Deconstructing the hagiographic "Man For All Seasons" by re-casting More as villain and Cromwell as quasi-hero is not necessarily a bad idea for a novel. Overly simplistic and arguably unfair perhaps -- but not bad. However, it ought to have been done in intelligible prose. Reading this book is a form of torture, though not quite as bad as being racked in the Tower.Many have complained about Ms. Mantel's wilful violation of the rule concerning pronoun and antecedent agreement. Why make the reader struggle to figure out who is doing or saying what to whom? Moreover, the use of present tense narrative might seem edgy and engaging to some; to me, it seemed pretentious and off-putting.My copy of "Wolf Hall" was a gift, so my suffering was limited to the "rack time" I endured in reading as much as I could stand -- which I confess wasn't much.
1 I was excited to finally start reading this book and had been looking forward to it for months. I had heard so much about it, all good, and skimmed some of the reviews here. Maybe I should have read more of them.The book started off beautifully....a brutal, well-told beginning to what I had hoped would be a broad, well written tale of Tudor England.After the first chapter, I had to keep jumping back to figure out who said what. I had to keep re-reading paragraphs and pages to figure out what on earth the author was trying to convey. It got so confusing to follow the story that I kept nodding off to sleep. And the story wasn't even interesting.....well, Hilary Mantels version wasn't, anyway. It was dry, boring and muddled.How on earth this book won a major literary award is beyond my scope of comprehension. It's not well written; the entire story is very poorly constructed, difficult to follow and extremely confusing. While I understand that "literary types" pat themselves and each other on the back for creatively breaking rules, Hilary Mantel appears to not know what the rules of good storytelling were in the first place.
5 A lot of the complaints I read were about her clarifying who was speaking. If you assume that it is Cromwell speaking you can follow fairly easily. For 90% of the comments and thoughts that were not clearly identified it is Cromwell. That aside, I enjoyed the look into Cromwell and his early life. I have read she portrays Cromwell a little too sympathetically but not having read a lot about Cromwell I couldn't say one way or another. A good read.
3 He reads the book which his friend lends him, even though he detests pieces written in the present tense. Writing in the present tense is a pretentious gimmick that almost makes him give up the book, but soon enough the story holds its sway, so he reads on, in spite of the writing. He hopes by the tots of St Agnes that he is not infected by the affected, somewhat confused, writing style. English tenses are beautiful.It happens that he had picked up a DVD of A Man For All Seasons not long before, in which Thomas More the hero is undone by Thomas Cromwell the villain. Wolf Hall apparently redresses the blackening of Cromwell. Colin Burrow's review in the London Review of Books calls Wolf Hall alternative history: well put.The novel brings alive the tastes and concepts of 16th century England. In contemporary America, a blacksmith's son who worked his way to the very pinnacle of power would be admired, but the contemporary peers never forgive him for his blood.He is not a great fan of thou art and thou shalt, so he is just as happy that the book is written in modern English. A few sentences are a bit too modern, such as `verbal instruction'. But that is not a serious flaw. More serious is when he reads that Cromwell stands up for Wolsey as Henry VIII and More bring him down and he goes north to York while he brings 44 charges against him and he defends him and he is so confused he can no longer figure out who the heck `he' is.Mantel would do well to heed the advice in Strunk and White: "Be obscure clearly! Be wild of tongue in a way we can understand!" Consider this sentence: "The evening before Fisher is to die, he visits More." By any logic, this would mean that Fisher visits More, but surprise, surprise, Cromwell visits More while Fisher stays locked up. An author's duty is to write sentences which can be understood; if the reader has to backtrack to straighten out an unclear construction, that is shoddy workmanship.He suspects that Wolf Hall is not the author's chosen title, for it has very little relevance to the story within these covers. Perhaps the author's title is London Smoke or Tudor Rain and the publisher wants something more dramatic, and wolves are dramatic. But for relevance to the story, the novel would be more aptly titled Anne's Belly.Spoiler alert: from the length of the book, he guesses it ends with Cromwell's execution after the execution of Anne Boleyn, but it ends with More's execution. Although the story fascinates, the book drags and droops from time to time, and perhaps could be handled more economically. Perhaps a sequel is in the making. Certainly the executions of Boleyn and Cromwell are worth a rousing novel. Fine, but he hopes Mantel remembers the elegance of the tenses of the English language. And tell us clearly who `he' is!
1 I wish I had looked at the reviews before I purchased this. A friend had told me to get this one, Wolf Hall and Bring Up the Bodies.  I had SUCH a hard time getting thru Wolf Hall...you never know who is talking or who is thinking what!  Luckily, someone must have gotten thru to the author and her next one, Bring up the Bodies was MUCH better....but still not terrific.  If you've read other books from the Tudor period, you know enough about Cromwell to just not read this one.  It COULD have been good....I felt like I was on speed trying to read it and make sense of it...no flow at all.
5 I studied this period and the Protestant revolution that followed.  This was a terrific look at folks other than the king, though Mantel showed (not told) how everything circled around the great Henry's person and personality.  She got the history in without dumbing it down or boring the reader--we know what's going to happen and yet keep turning the pages...wonderful writing!
3 My first attempt to read this novel was unsuccessful.  I was living abroad, and I bought it for my kindle.  I never finished the book, and then I realized something:  there are just some books that shouldn't be read on a kindle, and Wolf Hall is one of them.  For me, it's the kind of book that requires you to flip back to retrace the thread of a storyline, and the kindle really requires you to constantly move forward.  Mantel's storytelling is so multilayered and complex, that sometimes you just have to turn back to check a reference or a name.  Kindle makes that action awkward and time-consuming.  As a result, I eventually put the book down, meaning to pick it up again.  Today I saw it in my local bookstore, and I decided to buy a paperback and have another go.  I will be interested to see if my theory is correct and if I am able to follow Mantel's complex chain of pronouns and characters on the printed page better than I did on the electronic one.
5 This is simply an excellent novel.  Beautifully written.  Mantel uses terrific description of the characters so that you come to understand them very well.  The complexities of the plot are intriguing.  To borrow a phrase, this is history come alive on the page.  I noticed that reviewers who panned the book said it was hard to read.  I didn't find it so.  If, in reading it, you find yourself a bit confused as to who &#34;he&#34; refers to in a paragraph, well then, just go back and follow the thread.  Dare I say that America has a lot of lazy readers who, no double, missed the point that Mantell's writing style is to give the book a sense of immediacy, somewhat like stream of consciousness.  I just ate this book up as I did with &#34;Bring Up the Bodies.&#34;  Can't wait till the sequel (and the last of the 3 books) comes out.
4 I understand that there is some criticism for her style of writing, with the frustrating use of the He pronoun and there has been plenty said about the historical accuracy and simplified caricaturisations of characters, but I must say I still thoruoughly enjoyed it. I felt entirely transported back into the world of the Tudors, and totally absorbed from the first page. I really enjoyed the style of writing and would find myself rereading sentences and going back to enjoy a paragraph or two over again, which I might found exquisitely perfect. Subtle and laden with meaning on meaning. Even though it is a lengthy book she often strips the words back to their barest meaning, and adds a little spice, and I found it a real pleasure to read. Of course I found myself gunning for the main character which is what Mantel wants the reader to do, disregarding our own knowledge of his ruthlessness and cunning in history. Altogether a great read!
3 Any book with this historical era as its base is hot right now, and I've always enjoyed tales of the Tudors.  Who needs soap operas when we have real history?  Wolf Hall is a good addition to the genre.That said...I know this book just won the Booker, but I found the writing a bit difficult to follow.  Mantel uses pronouns to the point where I had to go back and reread passages to determine who was saying (and thinking) what.  So despite the honors, my feeling is the book could have used a more judicious editing process.
4 Even though a lot of us are familiar with the story of Henry VIII, we are less familiar with the story of Thomas Cromwell, his principal advisor for many years, a man who has been portrayed as a villain and made to appear one dimensional. In her book, Ms. Mantel presents him as a three dimensional person, with feelings, aspirations and vulnerabilities, sometimes portraying him as some sort of Robin Hood who takes from the rich to help the poor; she manages to make the story &#34;modern&#34; by showing us that nothing much has changed when it comes to people's ambitions and the prices they are willing to pay to achieve them. My one criticism is regarding the dialogues: I am not always sure which character is speaking and often need to read the text again to find out and even then I am still not clear on who said what.
5 Loved this perspective of the Tudor court and of the Age in general.  Waiting for the third piece of the puzzle...
4 Thundering great story.  You practically taste the mutton drippings at Hampton Court.  Wonderful details from the color of untreated oak to the cost & materials in milady's gown.  Highly recommended!
4 Historical fiction is a tricky business, and it's very easy to get it wrong. Too little detail makes such a book unconvincing, and too much makes it read like nonfiction. Dated language inevitably sounds corny, but modern characters in historical settings all end up sounding like Dr. Quinn Medicine Woman theorizing about racial and gender equality as she performs the first mammogram in the Old West. And then it's all for nothing if you pick a historical period that just doesn't grab anyone.Hilary Mantel has navigated this minefield well. At the moment the Tudors are about as sexy as a bunch of unwashed barely-post-medieval Londoners could ever hope for, so she already had a head start. And in following such an intriguing character as Thomas Cromwell - essentially following Barbara Tuchman's dictum of focusing on a figure who wasn't a king but was still influential enough to be at the center of things - Mantel had no lack of material to work with. The result is enjoyable and informative in no small part due to Mantel's deft balancing of historical and personal detail. If Tudor England is at all of interest to you, read this book.My one quibble is with a narrative device Mantel uses throughout the book. She more or less allows Cromwell to claim the third person singular pronoun for his own - pretty much any sentence or clause starting with "he" refers to Cromwell. I suppose the idea here is that we are following Cromwell, so of course "he" is Cromwell, and we are meant to trust the narrator to clarify if she is referring to someone else. But the approach is jarring and unnecessarily distracting. One minute she is talking about King Henry, and suddenly "he" is several sentences along in a speech before the reader realizes that "he" is Cromwell and not the King. The idea is clever and inventive, but for me at least, it was unsuccessful.Nonetheless, Wolf Hall is a brilliant book, and I'm looking forward to the next installment.
3 This book of historical fiction won a Man Booker Prize and was a New York Times Bestseller.  It is the first in a trilogy about the life of Thomas Cromwell.  It is long, but engagingly written and fast paced.  Characterization is well done, which is part of the book's charm.  It is, though, difficult to read.  There is a long, long cast of characters, many of whom share the same given name.  Not only their names, but their changing relationships to each other are critical to track, as well as their pedigrees, for want of a better word.  Fortunately, there was a character list in the prefatory material, along with family trees for both the Tudors and the Yorkist claimants.  Most disconcerting, though, is the use of "he" with confusion as to the antecedent.  This occurs on every page, or nearly so.  I realized after a while that "he" often meant Thomas Cromwell, but not often enough to be trustworthy without scrutiny.  I am astounded that enough people muddled through this book to make it a bestseller.  There must be more readers who enjoy the genre than I would have guessed.
3 This fictional account of life under England's King Henry VIII, centering on royal advisor Thomas Cromwell, is an "admirable" book -- but reading it was more chore than pleasure.The upside:Mantel's dialogue is sharp and often witty. The repartee between members of the king's court, Cromwell family members, and even lowly commoners, is consistently engaging.The sense of time and place is vivid. I have no idea how accurate any of it is, but as a work of fiction, "Wolf Hall" opens the doors to palaces, chambers, and courtyards in Renaissance England and makes you believe that you are actually there.The downside:Mantel's vocabulary is impressive, but I grew frustrated over her abuse of the simple pronoun, "he." I challenge anyone to read this novel without, at least occasionally, being surprised to learn that the "he" Mantel is writing about is not the "he" you had imagined."Wolf Hall" snagged numerous awards, including the Man Booker Prize. But I side with scholar Susan Bassnett, who writes, "I have yet to meet anyone outside the Booker panel who managed to get to the end of this tedious tome."
5 This was the beginning of the story of Thomas Cromwell and his rise in the court of Henry V111. Though it was hard to get past all the names and titles and work out just who was speaking or being spoken ABOUT it was worth the effort in the end. I could hardly wait to get onto the next book, which is Bringing Up the Bodies by the same author. I wrote out a list of characters for myself and their alternate titles and nicknames as well as their relationships to others in the book. I kept this list with me as I read the book and that helped me through it.
5 Mantel has chosen an original and provocative vehicle to tell the intimate story of Henry VIII's reign, and in particular the ascent of Anne Boleyn to the throne of England: the biographical novel of Thomas Cromwell (a grand-uncle of the future executioner of Charles I and Lord Protector, Oliver). It is original and provocative because Cromwell is usually portrayed as a villain, and not as hero, in any recount of those turbulent years. The son of a drunkard blacksmith who beats him, at a very young age Cromwell flees to Europe, where he prospers and becomes a successful lawyer and trade broker with important connections. He returns to England with an aura of mystery and something of a black legend, and in time he manages to add to his clients the powerful and unpopular Cardinal Wolsey, Chancellor of the Kingdom, whom he aides in his political intrigues. Cromwell becomes the Cardinal's right-hand man and, in his hour of disgrace, his negotiator with King and Court. The latter is increasingly dominated by Howard, Duke of Norfolk, who is trying to help his relatives, the ambitious Boleyns. With a mix of cunning, political skills, insolence and flattery, Cromwell draws the attention of the King, who listens to him more and more and puts him in charge of different errands.While Cromwell's political fortunes rise, the Plague deprives him of his beloved wife and daughters, which stuns him with inconceivable grief. As he moves on, he builds a very sui generis kind of family with what's left of his wife's family, a son, and several boys and girls he practically adopts. Far from Cromwell's usual portrait as an unscrupulous social climber, Mantel presents him as a basically good man, a generous and loyal family man who sails through stormy seas with intelligence and nerves of steel. All this personal story develops within the other well-known one of Henry's divorce, derived from his obsession with the male heir Katherine of Aragon seems incapable to provide. Henry's single-mindedness absorbs Cromwell, who ends up becoming the main operator of an international political plot. This, of course, wins him the King's favor, but it also brings him many enemies. To emphasize the contrarian nature of the book, the figure of Thomas More, a crucial character of the history and the novel and usually a martyr and a hero, is depicted here as a fanatical, egotistic bigot. Much of the novel's later parts deal with Cromwell's doomed efforts to make his execution unnecessary.In spite of Anne's hatred towards him, Cromwell makes her Queen but, as is well known, her problems begin even before the coronation. Henry achieves all of his objectives with the help of Cromwell, who gets rid of rivals, from Charles V's spokespersons to fraudulent clairvoyants set up by the Catholic opposition. When the novel ends, Cromwell is at the pinnacle of his political career, but stormy clouds start forming on the horizon.Told in the first person, this wonderful novel penetrates deep into the characters' psyche, especially the protagonist, a practical but complex man who can be sometimes brutal but who generally prefers peaceful and negotiated solutions: a true Statesman who, by force of circumstance, serves not-too-laudable causes. However, it should be noted that, in the long run, Henry's capricious divorce and Cromwell's political machinations and audacity got the British rid of the Vatican, a turning point in their history which was crucial to the development of an independent Empire based on science, freedom, and commerce. Other European powers had war machines; Britain had, besides, freedom of thought and technology as further allies.The Tudor age's recreation is masterful, and the novel reads like an adventures tale, fluid and with a management of the plot so good that it keeps the reader's interest going hard after a story so well known, and suspense high even if most everybody knows how it all will end.Lots of characters, intrigue, vivid and realistic descriptions, excellent dialogue which give full dimensions to each of the participants in this sordid and cruel saga of ambition, treason and violence. I can't wait to read the sequel, "Bring Up the Bodies".
4 The author thoroughly explores the history and character of Thomas Cromwell, a man that I had only thought of as a sycophant and an opportunist. Ms Mantell's writing is deliciously descriptive and witty, but somewhat hard to follow at times. I would recommend this book to anyone that has read Tudor period books for it's refreshing views and unusual style.
1 I apologize in advance if it is my shortcomings that have brought on my opinion of this book, but I have to say that I have read a lot of books, many historical novels, which are my favorite, and this one- I just could not understand what they were talking about half the time. It seems to me like the author mumbles to herself about things only she knows about..
5 Mantel's insights into the world of Henry VIII are superb. Based on 5 years of research carefully crafted with her excellent historical perspective. Very anxious for her follow-on book documenting Thomas Cromwell's last years at court. Tudor England presented, warts and all.
3 Although this novel doesn't compare to watching the Tudors, it does present the possibilities for the actions behind Cromwell's behavior.
5 I won't give the oft repeated storyline except to say that it definitely kept my interest throughout the book. I think what really hooked  me was the style of the writing--almost a stream of consciousness--that enticed me to read far longer into the night than I had planned.Now that Mantel has published &#34;Bring Up The Bodies,&#34; I am rereading &#34;Wolf Hall,&#34;, and the book is just as good as it was for my first read, in fact, I'd say it's one of the best works of fiction I've ever read.
4 Reading this book has lead me to researching and learning so much more about Henry VIII and his reign.Plus it make it so much more enjoyable going back and re-watching Elizabeth, the Tutors and many other movies.Give yourself lots of time to read this one, it isn't a quick read, but well worth it.
4 I really enjoy historical novels and I thought that this had an especially humanizing perspective on Cromwell, without sugarcoating his darker side. However, like several other reviewers, I found the author repeatedly confused me with an overuse of pronouns.  I really can't believe the editor for a book at this level didn't insist that be fixed. This is a long book and you will have to deal with that issue, I think, and really want to finish it.  A couple of times I was tempted to get a Kindle refund, but I plugged along and overall am glad I did.
5 Well-written (I overlooked the annoying and ambiguous use of the pronoun He.).  The characterizations of Thomas More and Thomas Cromwell were unusual and stimulating.  Although Wolf Hall is fiction, I presume the author dis sufficient research to warrant these characterizations.  At any rate, they were plausible to me.
1 Love the genre,  but I have a young child and this book is too much work to read at the end of the day.  I've had to re-read entire pages, figure out pronouns, who is speaking, characters, places, etc.  I've given up at 100 pages.  I myself need something more accessible.  This goes to the church rummage sale bin.  Probably a great book for those willing to invest the time and energy.  Wish I'd gotten it from the library instead of purchasing it.  Seems like these award books are getting harder and harder to access, not for the common reader (with just two degrees and no PhD in history/lit)  but for the ivory tower elite etc.
4 It took me a while to get into this book as the writing style is definitely different.  Once you get use to the writing style, the characters really start to jump out at you with how individual and interesting they were.  I don't know how much of each character was based on facts about the personalities of the historical people the represented, but I enjoyed them none the less.  If you're looking for an entertaining but historically educational read, this one definitely counts...
2 This book has received huge praise, awards, etc., and frankly I do not see why.Mantel is not a great writer, and the 147 1-star reviews adequately reflect why--her prose is confusing, she uses the pro-noun "he" in such a way that the reader is often unsure which character is meant, and other issues.  That means too much work for the reader, in an activity that should be enjoyable! I think she does get her history right, but the narrative drags....  By  of the way through it, I felt like the book went nowhere. I had a big "who cares" moment at that point, as she just goes from one event to another, not really tying them together or explaining where the whole thing was going.More important though is her failure to provide motivation for the main character Cromwell as he persecutes Protestants.  I would NEVER have given this book a Booker Prize, and would not recommend others spend time with it.
5 No, this is not about contemporary evils of the United States. It is about history of England. And the headline is a quote from the book, ascribed to Anne Boleyn's uncle. He said it to Thomas Cromwell,at least in this novel. Half of England's men at the time were called Thomas, which is sometimes irritating. Wolsey, Cromwell, More, Cranmer and so on and so forth. Another irritating habit of the time is that so many people lose their heads. Others get burned for trading in bible translations. A weird time.I am not normally fond of `historical' novels, for various reasons. Wolf Hall is supposed to stand out. It won the 2009 Booker (which is not a reliable recommendation), and it won the admiration of some friends, which was more important in making me take this 650 page doorstopper on my Christmas vacation. (And thanks to JCS for it!)It starts as if it were not an easy read. You don't get an introduction into Tudor politics. Better make sure to start with some basics, maybe by reading up on Cromwell and his contemporaries, maybe in Wikipedia (which is what I did, and I would have suffered without that).The narration, in the early pages, does not flow with the intention to keep you informed. The intention seems to be, rather, to mystify the reader, which can be amusing. The negative reviews here show that not everyone is amused. The bits and pieces of story that we are fed must be assembled to a larger mosaic, otherwise they remain meaningless. However, once you overcome a certain threshold, it is plain sailing.We are given tiny bits of Cromwell's simple and violent youth. Then we meet him as Cardinal Wolsey's right hand man, as a `just do it' type. Henry VIII's annulment battle is just starting. The tug of war between Henry and the Vatican is full of nice conspiracies. Wolsey falls out of grace, with the Boleyn family behind that. Then the narration slows down and goes for flashbacks into the details. We end up with a zigzagging story about an important phase in English and European history. We follow Cromwell's career in the post-Wolsey time. Thomas More has taken Wolsey's position, and that is not a good thing for Cromwell. Things turn around though; he becomes a king's counselor... But I don't want to summarize history.Cromwell is the main hero of the piece, while More is a villain, as is Anne B. The Cromwell character in this novel is a good, well rounded fictional portrait of a man one wants to respect and maybe even admire. I don't know how good the portrait is as history, and that hits right into the heart of my concerns of fiction about real historical people. Normally I find it easier to accept if fictional characters are inserted into a historical period.I am glad though that Mantel does not fall into the 'great men make history' frame, nor is the narration a vip rumor mill.This is well written and is strong on efficient, witty language. I have just one little complaint on language: Mantel has adopted the mannerism of calling Cromwell `he', nearly always. That can at times be confusing. Quite often, in the context, `he' would be somebody else according to normal grammar. When it confuses you, you are forced to remember who `he' is.Plenty of nice little aphorisms, usually from the viewpoint of Cromwell. Gambling is no vice if you can afford it. Only successful prophets are remembered.And why is the novel called Wolf Hall? The location called Wolf Hall is hardly present in the story.At the end, only More of the main personnel has lost his head. Anne B still has hers, as do Cromwell and Cranmer. A sequel is in the works. I might take that on another Christmas vacation.And by the way, Halley's comet shows up in 1531, and its previous showing in 1456 is much discussed. What does it mean? (It might be worth while to collect literary references to the thing. Right now, the only one that I can remember immediately is Voss by Patrick White. I know there are more.)
5 I decided a long time ago that I wouldn't review a book unless I had something new to add, but the negative reviews I've read of Wolf Hall here on the Amazon site have changed my mind in this particular case. You know that old chestnut by Mark Twain that the right word is the difference between lightning and a lightning bug? This entire book is an electrical storm. Mantel's use of language is nothing short of astonishing and Wolf Hall is on my very short list of the best books I've ever read, period.
5 Everybody knows the well-worn story of Henry VIII and his many wives, so it's hard to imagine a book that would bring this to new life and maintain any sense of suspense. Mantel does both, and writes beautifully.We see everything through the single lens of her narrator, Cromwell, and a whole world is realized. Mantel employs some grammatical tricks to compress our perspective even further (the use of "he" throughout to denote Cromwell takes a bit of getting used to), but the story races along without being hindered by the usual 'period' exposition that most historical fictions ladles out. Highly recommended.
5 PosiitivesWonderful characters and fabulous dialogue.Listening to them speak it was like being in the same roomThe emotional highs and lows that I had reading it were quite something; not from plot, hey we know what happens, but from the brilliance of the dialogue.  A book that made me FEEL!NegativesThe very first section is quite out of keeping withe the rest if the book.  Like it was an after thought.  It doesn't work well."He" is used a lot where "he" means Cromwell.  Takes a while to get used to this.Everyone is a Machiavellian genius.  Really?  No normal intellects amongst the in bred aristocracy?
4 Wolf Hall is filled with Wolsey/Cromwell/Tudor detail. Long-time Tudor fans of this time frame, will recognize the traditional players, coming and going, as Henry launches his wife hopping craze, eliminates the monasteries, and removes the Roman Catholic church to create a church of his own.  In theory, this is always great fodder for die-hard Tudor fans.  However, overall, this book was a major disappointment. Not because of content, but, because of how the book was written.  The storyline is from Cromwell's perspective. Nothing new there.  However, what is new is that Cromwell's narrative of himself is in the 2nd and 3rd person throughout the book.  Cromwell always refers to himself as "he", "his" or "himself".  Never as "I",  "my" or "mine".  The reader will find they are often unable to discern who is doing the talking, and to whom, with all the multiple pronouns. The author presents Cromwell as secretive, cynical, detached, judgemental and ruthless, with an occasional sentimental lapse when it comes to his son, his wards, a sister, and others living within his own household.  Given his position under Wolsey and Henry, this is quite a believable assessment. However, this perceived persona is provided by Cromwell himself, via talking to himself, or via thoughts going on in his head.  This type of narrative takes some getting use to.  And, even though the standard Tudor events are covered, and Tudor fans already know the outcome, readers may find this type of narration somewhat difficult to follow.  To me it was tedious, boring and repetative.  My degree is in Tudor history, and Wolf Hall came highly recommended by a colleague, as a plausiable fictional account of Henry's court in the early 1530s. The historical content in Wolf Hall is mostly accurate.  On this I would give the book 5 stars.  However, like most readers, I do not buy fiction for accuracy.  If I want accuracy, I will reread my text books.  I purchase historical fiction for easy reading entertainment.  When I must continually reread passages, to discern who is talking, and to whom, then I don't believe the book warrants more than 4 stars; but, closer to a 3 star rating.
3 I finished reading "Wolf Hall" three days ago after what felt like an eternity, and though time has passed, I've been trying to gather my thoughts on this prize-winning clunker. Generally, I like historical novels. I have some basic knowledge of the time period, and Mantel's writing gave a good introduction to most of the main players. The events depicted (the English Reformation) are intriguing and very vibrant. But there was just something about it that made it really difficult to stick with.The book is about Thomas Cromwell, son of a blacksmith and a jack-of-all trades. His benefator, Cardinal Wolsey, is arrested by Henry VIII, and despite Wolsey's being on the wrong side of the monarch's wish to divorce Katherine of Aragon and marry Anne Boleyn, Cromwell is fiercely loyal to his man. After Wolsey's death, the king becomes increasingly dependent on Thomas's advice, ability to make things happen, and knack for knowing what to say to people to achieve a desired result.The novel is also very much about the politics of the time. Mantel manages to catch the general reactions of the English population with regards to the attempt at ruling Henry and Katherine's marriage was immoral. While some of the characters fiercely support his bid for annulment, others oppose it (for logical reasons), and some simply don't care, as long as they can come out ahead in the end. I learned a lot about the Tudor period, the general running of the country, and the complex policies that had to be developed for Henry and Anne to wed.However, the book tended to drag in many places. It wasn't boring, but it was almost too thick. I saw a comment from another reviewer that recommended reading it in small doses, putting it down, and then coming back to it. To be honest, that's the only way I managed to finish. "Wolf Hall" was a chore to read rather than a pleasure, and while I can't quite put my finger on why, I have a feeling it's the density.At the moment, I'm undecided as to whether I'll pick up the sequel, "Bringing Up the Bodies". No matter what, I need to take a break from Mantel's writing style and soak up something a little easier to comprehend - and wade through - while I make my decision.
4 This book was a beast of epic proportions. I don't know if I can recommend this book to people who don't know much about the Tudors. It'll have you diving for facts and wondering who the main players are. Thankfully, the Tudors are one of my favorite royal families, so the fact diving was kept to a minimum. I also read it on my Kindle which was a Godsend when I wanted to highlight something. I'll share a couple of my favorite passages with you.Unfortunately, since I did read this on my Kindle, I can't give you specific page numbers.This quote is Thomas Cromwell (the main character) talking about Anne Boleyn, the King's new love interest. Just some quick background info.... Anne Boleyn became Henry VIII's second wife after his divorce from Katherine of Aragon. She was a liberal Catholic, meaning she leaned a bit more Protestant than most in a time when Catholicism was king. She was the mother of Elizabeth I. And, due to smear campaigns, it is said she had a sixth finger (never ever been proven). The author, Mantel, uses this rumor in such a great way in this book. Anne had developed these huge sleeves and hid her hands in them (hence the sixth finger rumor). Cromwell is referring to her habit of doing this in this quote:"It is so much a habit with her that people say she has something to hide, a deformity; but he thinks she is a woman who doesn't like to show her hand."Another favorite quote that doesn't require more info:"Well,' Rafe says, 'let us run up and down Cheap: Thomas Cramner has a secret, we don't know what it is!'""Tell him to go north, or I will come where his is and tear him with my teeth!''May I substitute the word 'bite?'"And the last quote that I really liked isn't really funny but just good. Cromwell is talking about Thomas More (the famous author of Utopia) and how he will use his connections on the Continent to make it seem like More is the victim in all the proceedings against him (it's extraordinarily complicated, and I can't give enough information here. A couple good sites to go to get more info would be [...] or the Goodreads Tudor Group.)"And sending it out of the kingdom to be printed. Depend upon it, in the eyes of Europe, we will be the fools and oppressors, and he will be the poor victim with the better turn of phrase."I seriously cannot recommend this book enough. It won the Man Booker Award in 2009. Let me warn you, it's incredibly difficult to get into. Just bear in mind that most of the "he"'s in the book are Cromwell and it should be an easier read. Once I had figured this out, I couldn't put the book down!
3 My question is why would anyone want to weigh in on Henry VIII and his changing of wives?  I know Cromwell is an interesting figure, but so much has already been written on the subject.  Mantel is a gifted writer, but her book goes no where and adds nothing new.  That she won a big award is wonderful for her, but I see this as less than an award winning book.  The book is very long and goes nowhere.  The arc of the story we already know - Henry doesn't love Katherine and does love Anne.  He will not tolerate any discussion about the course of his actions.  I would not recommend this book very strongly for anyone except maybe a scholar or two who can't get enough of Tudor life.
5 Sixteenth Century England through the eyes of Thomas Cromwell, who, though born the son of a blacksmith, became Henry VIII's most powerful and trusted advisor, and the second most powerful man in England, cutting through the social layers of a rigid society as a consequence of his intelligence, boundless energy and wit.To say that I was astounded by this towering novel would be a gross understatement. Because I often thought to myself, "How did she do this?" and, "How much of this factual?" while I was reading Wolf Hall, the first thing I did upon finishing was to watch several author videos. According to Mantel, although there is a vast historical record of the events and the business from 1500 to 1535 when this novel takes place, Cromwell left scant records about himself."Therefore, in spite of the author's philosophy, "Make use of such facts as they are, speculate only when necessary," I postulate that Mantel imagined Cromwell's personality, his largesse, his sense of humor, his loving ways towards his family. As a result, she created a character who I liked and admired. I came away with a much different picture of "Cromwell the Man," as opposed to any preconceived notion I may have had of Cromwell as, "Henry's Ruthless Fixer."A beautifully, brilliantly written account of English history.
5 Mantel won the Man Booker prize for this wonderful read.  What more needs to be said?  Nevertheless, I'll add these brief remarks:I'd never have thought so unsavory a character as Thomas Cromwell (chief minister to King Henry VIII of England, 1532 to 1540) could be rendered "human" -- not to mention captivating -- even in fiction!  But such is the magnitude of Mantel's talent.  I could not put this book down and went right out and bought its sequel (Bring Up the Bodies, which also won the Man Booker) upon finishing the last page.I hear Mantel is at work on the third installment of her Cromwell saga.  You can bet I'll be an one of her first customers.
3 I love good historical fiction and this has it. But, it is somewhat difficult to follow so that quality doesn't always flow well.
3 As some of the other readers have commented, I grew exasperated at the difficulty I had sorting out who was speaking, due to the author's reluctance to sort out her pronouns.  She may have known who was speaking and when, but I needed a bit of help.  I ended up reading very little of Wolf Hall, and am quite disappointed, as Tudor England is a favorite period of mine.
5 If you think you already have read enough about Henry VIII, this book will change that!  It's really about Thomas Cromwell, and I enjoyed very much seeing this &#34;other&#34; interpretation of his character and his place in history - I hope this one has some truth to it and that Cromwell was not the evil, one-dimensional power-hungry man he's been painted. I found myself rooting for this guy most of the time!
4 Read this for book group.  Many found it quite a slog because they had difficulty with the style and even I had to sometimes stop for a second to make sure I knew who was speaking.  I am fascinated by the history of that time however, and this book certainly gave me that.
1 I have been struggling to get through this book for at least 2 months to date and presently I'm halfway there.  Generally, I fly through books, even those I don't particularly enjoy.  I am finding this book highly confusing, as well as boring.  As other reviewers have referenced, some of the characters are very confusing and i had to keep stopping to try to figure out who they were.  The beginning seemed promising but once young Thomas left home, the book went downhill.  I initially purchased this book as I do enjoy historical fiction and it had received some good reviews, as well as bad.  I really wish I had focused more on reading the bad ones because they were more on target, at least for me.  I decided to write this review today as it is doubtful I'll continue to try to push onward with this book.
1 Hard to get into...Couldnt finish the book. It felt too much like a history lesson, and not enough interesting story.
5 Certainly not an easily read book, but Thomas Cromwell was apparently not an easily understood nor appreciated historical figure.  No sense in re-telling the story here...actually not possible.  My view is that the author tries to make the reader go through what Cromwell had to go through:  Cromwell's genius and why he was chosen by Henry VIII as his most trusted advisor/chancellor was that he did not have to have things explained to him.  Henry would say something like "I don't like that particularly." And Thomas was off to execute the most complex set of plans to right the situation without having to be told every detail.  Our readers today have to be told every detail or they cannot find themselves unless they are sitting on a mirror.  Cromwell had to figure everything out himself and he was spoon-fed nothing.  Just imagine how difficult it was that a low-born person should rise to sleep in the room next to the king because that is what the king thought he needed.  And the rooms had internal ajoining doors.Cromwell was also a modern man, seizing the exigency of the moment and proceeding no matter whose feelings were trampled upon...a very pragmatic person.  He was a person of financial astuteness who understood that it was money that moves the world not things.  His hero was the monk, Pacioli.I think there are two main characters here (and they do not include Anne nor Henry).  They are Thomas Cromwell and Thomas More;  right down to the end of Thomas More's life through execution which is the ending of the book, even though Cromwell lived years after that, the story ends.  It is as if that were the end of Cromwell's life as well.  The author is also trying to battle the portrait presented in A Man for All Seasons where More is seen as so noble and Cromwell as so evil.  We switch sides in this book and I think that was the point of the whole story.  Certainly the Catholic Church is portrayed as inimical here.Lastly, I found so poignant the frequent flashbacks to Cromwell's father, Walter, and the utter brutality he inflicted upon the son.Sorry to all you single stars, but I enjoyed this book so very much, even though it may have been a bit difficult to follow at times and did not possess any soap opera qualities.  Life was difficult for Cromwell.  Makes us look like pansies.
4 My first exposure to the historical context of the English Reformation and reign of Henry VIII came nearly 45 years ago when I saw "A Man for All Seasons" while sitting with a number of other undergraduates at the LeMoyne College (a Jesuit institution).  Sir Thomas More was depicted as the man of steady, honorable principle while his direct opposite was the seemingly unprincipled and dastardly royal servant, Thomas Cromwell.  Hillary Mantel's superb book WOLF HALL, paints a detailed and utterly convincing portrayal of Cromwell as the hard, intelligent, self-made man who became an invaluable royal servant and one of the indispensible architects of the English Reformation.Mantel presents the action from the perspective of loyal servant Thomas Cromwell during the final years of power under Cardinal Wolsey (late 1520s), through his fall and on through the ascendancy of Anne Boleyn and her family up to the execution Sir Thomas More in 1535.  Cromwell served Henry VIII with such skill and determination that he exercised much of the power previously held by Wolsey if not accumulating the same level of personal wealth.  The novel presents many of the arrogant, foolish nobles and functionaries surrounding the King from Cromwell's careful, circumspect view and lends an altogether different perspective of the hitherto sanctified Sir Thomas More from that of the Oscar winning movie.  More is seen as the self-righteous persecutor of "heretics" who indulged in torture and burnings even as he was, himself moving irrevocably toward execution for resisting the King.As it is densely packed with perceptions and facts, and with a dialogue that is often difficult to follow - as it is sometime impossible to determine which "he" or which "Thomas" is speaking - this is a challenging book to read.  But it is certainly among the very best offerings in historical fiction in many years.
5 Wolf Hall, by Hilary Mantel, is one of the most fascinating books I have ever read.  I did not want the book to end.  It enthralled me from its beginning.  But beware, you will lose your mind if you aren't well versed in Tudor history before beginning the novel.  The novel is complex and intricate with numerous characters and subplots.  Sometimes it is difficult to determmine who is actually speaking. Once you get used to the writer's style, however, you will fall in love with this book.  I have read numerous fiction and nonfiction books about the Tudor era, but this book is the best.  It ranks in the top five novels I have ever read.  I thorougly enjoyed reading this novel and highly recommend it to anyone interested in the Tudor period of English history.
2 The subject is most intriguing, but the writing style is very difficult to follow, especially for such a complex time.
2 Had trouble following antecedents for pronouns. Think it should have been written in first person for  the  main character, Thomas Cromwell.
3 Thomas Cromwell, the villain of A Man for All Seasons, is the protagonist of this historical novel set around the rise of Anne Boleyn. A devoted assistant of Cardinal Wolsey, he nevertheless survives the cardinal's fall and rises to become one of the king's closest advisors, advancing the Anne Boleyn marriage while working behind the scenes for the rise of Protestantism. He remains first and foremost a practical man, equally uncomprehending of fanatics of both Catholic and Protestant stripes. Naturally, as he rises he attracts enemies, but at home, a passel of young people and servants are devoted to him.I found the novel terribly dry, but somehow compelling. The reader is held at arm's length, understanding Cromwell much more through his actions and conversations than his thoughts, into which the reader is rarely invited. The cast of characters is truly bewildering, but clear portraits emerge of a few big names, most notably the royal family and Thomas More, portrayed here as cold and sanctimonious--wearing a hair shirt, humiliating his wife, taking financial advantage of his wards. Henry appears as immature and petulant, perpetually self-centered. Among the bit players, many blur together, though Mary Boleyn stands out--jealous and grasping, yet somehow appealing in her openness. Not for the easily bored, this is a long, dense novel and much more about political machinations than the emotions and motivations of actual people. Adding further difficulties, the author insists on always referring to Cromwell as "he," even when another "he" is present and even when the two are easily confused. Already not a fast read, the novel slows the reader down further by requiring one to repeatedly pause and tease out who said what. I finished the novel, but do not plan to look for the sequel Mantel is reportedly writing. In summation, I can see that this is a "good book," but I didn't have any fun reading it.
4 Ever since I can remember, I have been fascinated by English history, especially the period from the Wars of Roses to the English Reformation. Even the best of Hollywood cannot top this era for action, adventure, romance, intrigue and violence.Please forgive the brief, (?), history lesson which follows, but "Wolf Hall" assumes a deep knowledge of English history that most people - except for those well schooled in English history - lack. I hope I am more helpful than boring in summarizing the background of this exceptional work of historical fiction.The Wars of the Roses, were a series of dynastic civil wars between the rival houses of Lancaster, (the Tudors), and York, (the Plantagenets), for the throne of England. The Lancastrian symbol was the red rose - the Plantagenet's, the white. The war ended with the victory of the Lancastrian Henry Tudor, King Henry VII, who founded the House of Tudor. His marriage to Elizabeth Plantagenet, (the white rose), and the eldest daughter of King Edward IV, penultimate king of the house of York, cemented the joining of the two houses. The third child of their political union was called Henry, who was to become King Henry VIII. That's the background information for the setting of Hilary Mantel's Man Booker Prize winning novel, "Wolf Hall."The time is 16th century Tudor England, (1527 to 1535), under the reign of King Henry VIII, at the beginning of the English Reformation. The Reformation was brought about by a series of events initiated when the Church of England first broke away from the authority of the Pope and the Roman Catholic Church. These events were, in part, associated with the wider process of the European Protestant Reformation, a religious and political movement which affected the practice of Christianity across most of Europe. Many factors contributed to the process: primarily the invention of Johann Gutenberg's printing press - a device which would change the world.The demand for books became huge as Europe began to come out of the medieval era into the Renaissance. This hunger for knowledge increased dramatically once the Printing Press was invented - knowledge and ideas that were not easily obtainable before, suddenly became accessible. As people became more prosperous and literate, those who could read Latin were able to read the Bible, and they began to rethink their faith in the Catholic Church. The Printing Press meant that people, like Martin Luther, could spread their word quickly and easily, resulting in the Reformation and other changes. By the year 1480 its impact was immediate among the literate classes. However, once the Bible was translated into English, it enabled printed materials to spread rapidly - people could no longer be kept in ignorance and darkness.Before The Reformation only the clergy could own and interpret the Bible. It was illegal for laypeople to possess the Holy Book in many countries, including England. it was still forbidden to read a Bible if you weren't a priest. The Church outlawed the printing of the Bible and certainly the sale of the Bible.The Lollardy Movement in England began to grow. Lollardy was the political and religious movement of the Lollards from the mid-14th century to the English Reformation. The term Lollards refers to the followers of John Wycliffe, a prominent theologian who was dismissed from University of Oxford in 1381 for criticism of the traditional church, especially his doctrine on the Eucharist. Its demands were primarily for reform of Western Christianity. Lollards were persecuted in England as were the Jews and "false" converts in Spain during the Inquisition.The above subjects are the heart of "Wolf Hall's" narrative.I think the novel, including warts and flaws, is certainly worthy of the Booker Prize, although I have not read the short list. You might be disappointed if you are expecting the book to resemble the works of Philippa Gregory or Jean Plaidy, (and I am a huge fan of both writers), or to echo the themes of films like "Anne of a Thousand Days", "A Man for All Seasons," or the HBO Tudor mini series, (all terrific films). "Wolf Hall" is definitely NOT "historical fiction lite!" From seemingly timeworn material, a fresh and finely wrought work has been written. It portrays an extraordinary portrait of a society in the throes of change, with Henry VIII at its helm and Thomas Cromwell as first mate....or perhaps, visa versa!! But make no mistake, this is not a novel of romance, nor obvious drama with great tension which builds toward an exciting climax.Our protagonist is Thomas Cromwell, a man from extremely humble beginnings. The son of an abusive Putney blacksmith, Cromwell rises through life to become the chief minister of King Henry VIII. Intelligent and shrewd to begin with, he learned his street smarts after he ran away from home in his early adolescence, and survived by his wits alone. He spent years as a mercenary in France. Then he worked with bankers in Florence. He plied a trade for a time as a clothier, and then as a lawyer. Cromwell's introduction to the life of the rich and powerful elite begins with his relationship with Cardinal Wolsey. Wolsey is a compelling and commanding figure - an English statesman and Cardinal of the Catholic Church. His eventual fall from such heady heights is due to his inability to provide Henry VIII with a Church-sanctioned divorce from Catherine of Aragon. Ironically, Wolsey's fall from grace causes Cromwells fortune to rise.The novel is told entirely from Cromwell's point of view. Nothing important occurs unless he is either a witness or otherwise made aware of the circumstances.In the 1520s England is a heartbeat from disaster. If the king dies without a male heir, the country could be destroyed by another civil war. Henry VIII wants to annul his twenty year marriage to Catherine of Aragon and marry Anne Boleyn. Cromwell realizes that Henry, would remain Catholic if the Pope would just give him what he wants, a dispensation to marry Anne. But the Pope and most of Europe oppose him. Cromwell knows that the King can only be led to the Reformation through his desire for Anne Boleyn.In many Tudor history accounts, Cromwell is disparaged, but here the author gives him a human face. He is constantly busy arranging all things to please "His Majesty," even willing to give his life to win the king's favor. Frequently, however, he labors to suit himself and his own desire for reform. He is a family man, yes - but he is also secretive, a bully and a charmer, both idealist and opportunistic, tireless, astute in reading people, and a consummate ambitious politician. He is a reformer but not a zealot. Cromwell helps Henry VIII with "The King's Great Matter" - to break the opposition and, ultimately, make Henry the head of the Church of England and husband of Anne Boleyn. It is through Cromwell's eyes that the reader watches the Tudor world unfold."Wolf Hall" is a most complex, deftly written, original novel - but it is long - over 500 pages - and it is certainly not a fast read. This is a book, both vivid and real, which should be read slowly and savored. It doesn't deal with Henry's romantic inclinations and indulgences, glamorous fetes and progresses, etc. It doesn't even touch on Anne Boleyn's beheading. The main theme here is how to obtain power and wield it. There is little heroism or idealism here."Listening to a disgruntled earl pontificate about 'ancient rights,' Cromwell wonders how he can explain real life to this clueless nobleman. 'The world is not run from where he thinks. Not from his border fortresses, not even from Whitehall. The world is run from Antwerp, from Florence, from places he has never imagined . . . not from castle walls, but from countinghouses, not by the call of a bugle but by the click of the abacus.'"Most surprising is Hilary Mantel's revisionary take on such figures as Thomas Moore, usually viewed as a great scholar, Renaissance humanist, a violent opponent of the Reformation of Martin Luther, and a government official. For three years, toward the end of his life, he was Lord Chancellor. According to most accounts, Moore was a kind and sympathetic man, faithful to his family, his king and the Church. The author's version of Moore, who was beatified by Pope Leo XIII in 1886, and canonized on May 19, 1935, by Pope Pius XI, is one of a man obsessed with his religion, who wears hair shirts, flagellates himself, makes fun of his wife, has a nasty temperament, and delights in torturing anyone suspected of Lollardy. Those imprisoned in London's tower fear his competence with the use of the rack and other such devices. And he delights in seeing "heretics" burn at the stake.Other characters brought to life on the pages, include: Henry VIII; Thomas Cranmer, a leader of the English Reformation who helps build a favorable case for Henry's divorce from Catherine of Aragon, which results in the separation of the English Church from a union with the Holy See. Along with Thomas Cromwell, Cranmer supports the principle of Royal Supremacy, in which the king is considered sovereign over the Church within his realm. Those in secondary roles include Thomas Howard, 3rd Duke of Norfolk and Anne Boleyn's uncle; Charles Brandon, 1st Duke of Suffolk and husband to King Henry's sister Mary; Anne Boleyn, (who is not a prominent figure here - she is just a prop in a much larger story); Mary Boleyn, ("The Other Boleyn Girl"), the French ambassador, and many more people, famous or otherwise.What really bothers me about the narrative is that the author uses the pronoun "he" much too frequently but fails to mention the subject first. Therefore I found myself reading a page or two before discovering who "he" is. This is really disconcerting and takes away from the smooth flow of the prose and storyline. Otherwise, the writing, in the present tense, is excellent and often witty.Honestly, I have no idea why the title is "Wolf Hall," which is the seat of the Seymore clan. The name only appears once or twice in the book and the estate is never visited. Jane Seymour, daughter of "Wolf Hall," was Henry VIII's 3rd wife who finally bore the man a legitimate son. I could postulate on the symbolism of the title...but in the end, I just advise English history lovers - all historical fiction fans - to grab a copy of "Wolf Hall." It is well worth the time it takes to read it.I understand a sequel is in the works and I cannot wait!Jana PerskieA Place of Greater Safety: A NovelA Change of Climate: A NovelFluddAn Experiment in Love: A Novel
1 Goodness knows how she wrote the sequel to the drivel from the first book. Can someone please explain this to me..
5 This worthy winner of the prestigious Man Booker prize for fiction makes a wonderful introduction to the turbulent history of Tudor England, spesifically Henry V111. Most unusual writing draws the reader right into the mind of Thomas Cromwell, an often maligned character. This book will absolutely keep you thinking, wondering and feeling glad you live today and not in 16 century England. Recommended for lovers of literary novels and not just historicals.
3 I have taken ages to plough through this book on account of the style of writing. If you did not know about the Tudor period and Thomas Cromwell you would be lost. the author's use of &#34;him&#34; leaving  us to guess just who the &#34;him&#34; was nearly drove me crazy. however the story itself is worth 5 stars, but given it 3 because it is difficult to read. Apparently her follow up book is much better so I will give that one a go.
5 Fell in love with this book.  The writing style is so unique and through that I found it really easy to get thoroughly absorbed into the life and times of Thomas Cromwell.  What a time, what a life!  It is amazing to read the history from another point of view (whether fictional or not) and that brings characters that you have read about or heard about or studied to life.It is a brilliant effort and well deserving of the Man Booker Prize.
5 A friend who is herself a novelist recommended Wolf Hall. I ordered a paperback copy, read it though, almost without stopping to eat or sleep. When I finished reading the book, I took a deep breath and read it again. Why have most serious US readers of fiction never heard of Hilary Mantel? Christopher Hitchens mentioned her brilliance in a winter 2011 issue of Vanity Fair. After a break, I'm now reading Wolf Hall for the third time and planning to order every novel Mantel has published.
2 I probably asked for it. Serves me right. Not being a fan of historical fiction, I picked this up on the strength of its Booker reputation - how many other authors could win the Booker for a novel AND its sequel?It took me 6 months to give up on it, so there you go - I am a sado-masochist when it comes to sticking with a book that drives you to tears, not because you are moved by it, but because it is so darn difficult to read. In the end, I had only got past 51% of it (precise figure on my Kindle version).Hilary Mantel does paint a rather vivid picture of Thomas Cromwell, giving the reader an intimate (albeit imagined) view of the man behind the historical political figure, and serves up tasty little morsels of his private life, right from his underprivileged beginnings. The novel opens with a beating by his own father which is so graphically brutal, you could both feel and hear little Thomas's skull hit the cobbled street. From there, we learn about his inventive cunning cultivated from a strong survival instinct. In adulthood, he aligns himself to the Cardinal Wolsey which brings him in direct contact with the King. When Wolsey falls from favour, Cromwell is in danger of being cast aside too, but he manages to ingratiate himself into the courts of King Henry VIII, becoming instrumental in the latter's union with Anne Boleyn.But these facts bore me, and the court intrigue failed to engage me. Perhaps Cromwell's touching relationship with his wife, who is gone too soon, and his tenuous ties with his children after that, as well as Anne Boleyn's flirtations with him, his imperceptible thoughts and feelings gave him some shape as a character.Like some other readers, I find that Mantel's style of using &#34;he&#34; to refer to Cromwell, especially when there is a cast of male characters speaking, makes for confusing reading, and only serves to mar my already challenging experience of reading this text. So I'm bowing out of this book - for now anyway. And oh, I couldn't resist taking a peek at the next book in the series &#34;Bring Up the Bodies&#34;, and found the opening lines really engaging. Gulp. Flog on.
3 The prose is hard to read as well as the narrative.  It does get easier as the book goes on, but the story of Cromwell and Henry VIII is written in a more interesting way elsewhere.
5 I love this book.  The characters are well-developed, including the fascinating Thomas Cromwell and King Henry.  The details of everyday life in 1500s England have been meticulously researched.
4 A very interesting read, although writing style is often confusion (sometimes hard to tell which character is talking/thinking).  The family trees are helpful; had this Cromwell (Thomas) mixed up in my mind with Oliver.
5 BEVERLY HILLS --Maybe the Tudor period of England is not very well known today. However, a novel titled "Wolf Hall" sure comes very close to it. The author Hilary Mantel has a real winner in her hands. Mantel manages to weave her tale about Henry the VIII and his allies and enemies with great ease. Obviously the author has a soft spot for Henry's one time minister Thomas Cromwell. In real life Cromwell suffered a beheading by his master but in this story she makes Cromwell a lot more intelligent and crafty than the real life version could possibly have allowed him to be.Mantel manages however to chronicle and execute the realistic view that being Henry's friend or ally could be very good and at a moments notice your life could end very tragically. What is best about this book is that by writing it as fiction, the author is able to maneuver characters around who normally would not have interacted but she does so gracefully and with great detail, and it makes for amazing theories of how things could have been much different in history. I also love how the novelistThe characters are rich, filled with intrigue and the author's knowledge and love for the sixteenth century England is impeccably documented. The story reads like a road map, but doesn't lack surprise and intrigue, which is what anyone reading a novel likes to see and feel. When I picked up the 560 page tome I thought I'd be able to finish the book in a week, but in only three days I finished it, being an historian I was unable to put the book down. The Henry Holt and Co. publishing is an amazing page turner, a must read for historians, fans of European royalty or anyone who is looking for a autumn novel to enjoy on these cooler nights.This book gets an A+ for creativity, readability and intense excitement.
2 I wanted to love this book but couldn't finish it.  The storyline was hard to follow and the excessive failure to identify who was speaking left me confused.  I know I am in the minority but this book is not for me.
3 Our book club is currently reading this book for a September review.  Most of us agree, this book is difficult to get into.  The author has obviously put a lot into her writings of this period of history but I have found it difficult to keep up with the characters.  It is  interesting to note, much is given credit to Thomas Cromwell but Thomas More is made out to be a less than formidable character.  But many of these kinds of books take liberty with history so it is totally understandable.  I will finish the book as it does pique one's interest and we will review it but I probably will not read the others of this of this series.
3 I have listened to both Byatt's and Mantel's books on CD.  Both are wonderfully read and presented.  However, I became bored with Wolf Hall.  I like and appreciate a book with multi-facets, multi-levels of action, characters and themes.  And so, I was much more taken by the Children's Book by Byatt.  These are, of course, personal views about  the Booker Award for 2009.Mantel's book is long and does, indeed, want an editor.  Character descriptions seem plugged in and are repeated verbatim.  Perhaps the author forgot that she previously had used  these descriptions--it's a  long book!  Wolf Hall was interesting in the details, some horrific, of Tudor life.  The political intrigue, lobbying, sexual antics and brutality make modern Washington DC seem tame.I went to Catholic schools in the 50's and 60's and remember Thomas More presented differently, as in saintly.  It was very interesting to read this presentation of his brutal tortures for the preservation of his Catholic faith.  The words, "burnt at the stake", will never again be just words for me.  The burnings in this book seemed real, and I was disgusted by  the crowd's enjoyment of them.  That's certainly powerful writing.But ultimately, I want a book to be more than an interesting narrative.
5 This is a marvelous book -- the approach is original, the characterization subtle and detailed, the description true to life. Brings Tudor England to life, and takes a much-studied era and makes it fresh and new. When I came to the end of this 640 page book I thought it was too short!
3 I was excited about reading Wolf Hall, as I usually enjoy Man Booker Prize winners, and I love learning about Tudor England, the period in which this story takes place. I also studied the Tudors in college, so I probably know a bit more about that period in history than the average reader.Unfortunately, this book was written in such a strange and at times confusing manner, I had a hard time keeping track of the characters, who was speaking, and in general exactly what was going on. I confess here that I stopped reading after 160 pages. Having some knowledge of Tudor history, if I had trouble following it, I think those with no background in the subject could get truly lost.The biggest problem for me is the style of writing. Characters are referred to by different names in different places. Many characters are named Thomas (historically accurate), but at times you don't know which Thomas is being referred to and it seems that little effort was made to use precise language. Often the author merely writes "he" said this or that, but you don't know who she is referring to unless you backtrack a paragraph or even a page. After a while this became so tedious it was a project just to get through a chapter, never mind enjoy the story. At no time could I just enjoy reading without double-checking about who was doing the talking. I don't know if it was an editing problem or if that is just the author's style of writing, but it did not work for me.I will say that the book is thoroughly researched, and if you can persevere enough to finish it, you will learn something about a fascinating period in history. But there are many movies and books on the subject, such as the recent "The Other Boleyn Girl" or the movie "Anne of a Thousand Days" that I found much more enjoyable.
4 The little I knew about Thomas Cromwell came fromA Man For All Seasons [HD] and if you're at all familiar with that work you know Cromwell does not fare well in Bolt's portrayal. Mantel makes an effort to create a more balanced fictional portrait of Henry's counselor and provides him with an interesting persona. Fiercely loyal, but never losing his awareness of how precarious his position is, Mantel's Cromwell, is a schemer, but one who has the greater good of England in mind. The machinations he creates to support Henry's goal of divorcing his wife Katherine and marrying Anne Boleyn are nothing short of genius as he also take the opportunity to acquire the Catholic Church's lands and the money they earn for the English Crown. The only aspect of this portrayal I had difficulty with was his remorse at the eventual destruction of Thomas More, a man he was at odds with and stood in Cromwell's way of making a stronger, more self-sufficient England. I really feel that Cromwell would have relished the opportunity to remove this thorn from his side but mantel's take was he regretted the necessity of the eventual outcome. Exceptionally readable, WOLF HALL moves along well and if Cromwell remains a bit of a mystery by the end, so be it. I look forward to the rest of the series.
2 Just a flat out confusingly told story. From the first page, I never could tell who was speaking at the time.I usually devour any fiction I can find about the King Henry VIII period and enjoy it.I've been happily reading fiction novels about english history for the last 30 years, and this one was a major disappointment, it was so dry.It didn't make you care about anyone, nor have any curiosity as to how things were going to turn out, nor sympathy for any of the characters.Didn't reveal anything particularly interesting in his portrait of Queen Anne or King Henry or Cromwell himself, really. They didn't come to life in this novel, nor did the court. I had a very hard time finishing it, and can not recommend it.
5 Although I haven't quite finished this wonderful beginning tale of Thomas Cromwell, it is a fascinating journey into history and fiction.  Hilary Mantel has woven the two fabrics together in such a way as to bring the entire period of history into my reading world.  My next pick will be the second part of the trilogy: Bring up the Bodies.  Hopefully the final book is almost completed.
5 If ever there was an unlikely hero from modern history, it is Thomas Cromwell. Not to be confused with his grand-nephew Oliver who rules England after the Puritans relieve Charles I of his head, Thomas was the grey eminence in the court of Henry VIII, at the time of his stories separation from the Church of Rome. Hilary Mandel brings that era to rough and ragged life on this pages of her marvelous book, "Wolf Hall."The times were charged and fraught with danger. Luther's revolt against the Church was gathering momentum, shifting the balance of power among Europe's fractious states. England, never particularly wealthy, partly due to expensive foreign adventures, needed a new source of income. The king, desperate or a male heir to solidify his rule, was looking for a way out of his marriage to Catherine. Various ambitious families, like the Boleyns and the Seymours, were more than happy to use their daughters to satisfy the king's wishes for intimacy. And Thomas Cromwell--the fixer, the mover, the shaper--used all the rest to wrest England from the grasp of Rome and bring the gospel to his native land.This is a master work of historical fiction. Told from the point of view of Cromwell, it follows him from his days as a boy beaten by his rageful blacksmith father to his years as a mercenary and cloth seller. His experiences have made him wise and circumspect, qualities which he uses to advance his cardinal-mentor's fortunes, and then the king's. Mantel's style takes a little work to understand. She dispenses with many of the instances "then X said" that would clutter her pages. The reader sometimes has to work to realize who is speaking. But her portraits of the era's notables are remarkable, if outside my ken to validate. There is the powerful epicene, Cardinal Wolsey, Cromwell's patron and tutor. There is Henry, boisterous, decisive and plagued by doubts and superstitions. There is the calculating Ann Boleyn, who spent seven years insinuating herself into the king's graces. There is Thomas More, pious, haughty and unmoved by tortures applied to heretics. It is this last portrait that has caused so much scandal. More is often thought of as the principled lawyer who stood up for his conscience. Mantel places him more squarely in his times, as defender of his faith and executor of its policies."Wolf Hall" is a brilliant book, or all it difficulties, and a pleasure to read. Mantel's luscious poetic cadences and her deep knowledge of history and of the human soul make the work a constant joy.
1 It is inexplicable to me that this novel has received such glowing reviews.I read all the Man Booker Prize winners. Between this choice and "The Finkler Question," my faith in the prize has lessened quite a bit.This novel has been reviewed so much by other readers that I'll keep it short. The pronoun business with 'He' is frustrating, intrusive and calls attention to itself.Writing a historical novel to me is always suspect. What should the reader take away from it?Do we get a better understanding of history or is it just a soap opera applied to already known facts? Does the author stretch the facts in order to sell more books?This reads like an entertainment. What it lacks as entertainment is tension. What do I really care about? I don't get much of a feel for any of the characters. Even our hero Thomas Cromwell seems wooden. One of the reason for this is the dialogue. Dull. Soap Opera speak that doesn't seem at all appropriate to the time period. All characters speak with the same voice and that voice is of a catty, bitchy person.I don't blame Hilary Mantel. I think she was probably writing this in hopes of scoring a TV mini-series out of it. I blame the Man Booker prize committee. This one is a poorly written 600-page bore!
4 Mantel relates the fall of Cardinal Wolsey and rise of Thomas Cromwell under King Henry VIII. Thomas Cromwell is a historical character worth coming to know. He is "a person".Mantel's language is so precious with trills and filigree that one might lose the track of the narrative.  The language is beautiful, but telling a good and important story is sacrificed to Mantel's attention to, and talent for, turning phrases.  Still, it is well worth the time.  The story is there, and the word choice and phrasing is artfully impressive.An example of the effectiveness of the narrative is that Mantel completely turns upside down my view of Sir Thomas More.  From reading "Utopia" in high school and the seeing play and movie, "A Man for All Seasons", I thought of More as a saint.  Now, he seems a hypocritical, perverted, insensitive sadist.  Mantel's "Wolf Hall" changed my understanding of More's character, because she drew his character so effectively.Admission: I listened to the book as an audio book. I gave up on it the first time, because, it was too thick to absorb while working out.  I was bored with it. But, I came back to it, and it was well deserving of a second chance with better concentration.  It was beautiful and not at all boring (although, I may have sacrificed concentration on working out).[...]
5 Somehow I doubt Cromwell was the man depicted in this book. But who cares? It is a lyrical, gorgeous retelling of a time in Tudor England when society began changing, falling apart, clashing. Everything is filtered through Cromwell's eyes, and the jolt when realizing the pale-faced young girl is Jane Seymour, or catching a glimpse of Mark Smeaton, is thrilling. Her writing is luminous. Cromwell's mind is way too forward-thinking to be realistic, and it's certainly a novel representation of Thomas More, but since this is presented as fiction, sit back and enjoy the ride.
5 The setting for this novel is the reign of Henry VIII, during the period in which Henry's desire to end his marriage to Katherine of Aragon in order to marry Ann Boleyn was the focus of much political, diplomatic and ecclesiastical energy.  I wondered, before I picked up this novel and read it, what value could this novel add to what are well traversed events and well known characters?  Quite a lot, as it turned out.The protagonist is Thomas Cromwell, son of a blacksmith who rose to be one of the most powerful men at Henry VIII's court.  In seeing/sharing Cromwell's view of events we also get some sense of the man, his family and the events and influences that shaped him.  We also obtain a very clear perspective of some events which he shaped. The novel ends with the death of St Thomas More, so we do not see Cromwell in decline, only in ascendancy.  It makes for interesting, at times frustrating but ultimately satisfying reading.  I found it interesting because of the machinations to rid Henry of one wife in order to marry the next and because of the impacts and consequences.  I found it frustrating because I had to slow my reading down in order to follow which `he' (at times there were many possibilities) was being referred to.  As it happens, this frustration ultimately led to satisfaction.Thomas Cromwell was amongst the most able of Henry VIII's advisers.  I enjoyed Ms Mantel's portrayal of him, and also of Thomas Wolsey.  I did not enjoy as much her portrayal of Sir Thomas More but that is because I cling to an idealised view for other reasons.  Many of the other characters: including assorted members of the family Cromwell, More, Boleyn, and Seymour strutted (or crept) across the pages.  Some were every bit as likeable or unlikeable as I chose to believe they were, others portrayed differently gave cause for reflection.The novel concludes after the death of Sir Thomas More, with a note that Cromwell will visit Wolf Hall, the seat of the Seymours.  And, somehow this ending seems appropriate. The events of nations and peoples, and the affairs of kings, continue.  Alliances form and breakdown, and reform differently.  Today's ally is tomorrow's enemy.`It matters what name we choose, what name we make.'Jennifer Cameron-Smith
2 I read this for a book club. As someone who isn't a big history buff, I had a very hard time following the story. The consensus at book club was that if you're familiar with this time period, then you'll love it. I wasn't willing to go back and research Thomas Cromwell and everything, so I didn't get much out of it. I also found it hard to follow, as most of the characters are named either &#34;Thomas&#34; or &#34;Mary,&#34; and the author doesn't always keep her pronouns straight.
2 Not my favorite. Love the subject & historical characters, just hate how the story jumps around. Feels slightly disjointed & due to the numerous characters with the same first name (Thomas), becomes extremely confusing.
2 After reading so many positive reviews I could not have been more excited to see this on my doorstep and dig in.  Sadly, I was like a deflated balloon.  I love to read anything about the Tudor dynasty however I struggled with this book from the start and eventually gave up 1/3 of the way through.  Like many others who have posted reviews I was constantly confused as to who was speaking and found myself flipping back and forth just to stay straight.  I still wonder....is it poor writing, extremely poor editing, or both?  I have read all of Alison Weir's (fiction and non) dealing with similar subject matter  and believe she is an incredible historian and story teller so maybe other authors will always suffer from comparison.
3 I've been delaying my review of Wolf Hall, partly because I feel like I should wholeheartedly embrace it and gush about it: it's historical fiction about Henry VIII's court (the Tudors! Anne Boleyn! London Tower beheadings!), it's brilliantly NOT focused solely on the king or the ladies who would be his wives, but on the Machiavellian Thomas Cromwell! It's a Booker Prize winner, everyone loves it, and it's gotten accolades from all the leading reviewers blah blah blah.Choosing Thomas Cromwell as the vehicle and lens for a novel about one of the most infamous periods in history was a brilliant and clever move on Mantel's part. Her revisionist history of him is (post)modern and innovative. BUT I was just. so. astoundingly. bored. Stark raving bored, even. Much of the novel was so ho-hum and jejune that it was a guaranteed good night's sleep for me, which is maybe why I took months to finish it. With every bit of minutiae Mantel made me trudge through about Thomas More and the religious dissenters of the time, or when recounting the actions of every duke or earl ever given land and titles by the Tudors, my will to finish the novel died a little bit.Paradoxically, I like, in theory, that Mantel focuses on the prosaic occurrences of the court and envisions the story of Henry VIII, his wives, his split with Rome and development of the Church of England through leisurely days in the royal mistress's chambers or at the dinner table of Thomas Cromwell. Don't we always picture such times as being about the proclamations and the presentations to parliament and Rome, and not the day that Boleyn confided in Cromwell for the first time or the day that Cardinal Wolsey had his royal gifts seized as he fell out of favor? (or, maybe, with the popularity of that concupiscent and lusty and completely unrealistic tv series The Tudors, this is exactly how we imagine it. Truthfully, I've never seen the show. I just know that when everyone is that attractive and has such white teeth it can't be too authentic. Henry was a corpulent guy and Ms. Boleyn wasn't exactly a 16th century Heidi Klum.)And I'm off on a carping spree, so I'd like to add: there are far too many characters in Wolf Hall. Most of them are too poorly fleshed out to invest in or bother trying to memorize. I gained no more insights into a few of them than I would have from reading a history book, and yet they're all over the place. They're coming at me from Suffolk and Norfolk and clogging up the story. There's a 3 or 4 page long character cheat sheet in the front of the book, so that should've been my warning. Also, there's a Tudor and Plantagenet family tree that's long and complex, and I found myself making notations on it constantly as Mantel reveals past hunting accidents of so and so Tudor and how that linked with the modern Tudor rulers. I'm willing to shoulder 3 quarters of the blame concerning these issues. My Tudor history isn't what an Anglophile or watcher of the Tudors tv series would be. Maybe my attention span isn't what it used to be. Maybe I've gotten out of practice with close reading since my days of learning and teaching literature. Who knows? But I'm placing some of the blame squarely on Mantel. She, or her editor, could have cut a few of the characters, scenes, and back stories without harming anything. This book should've been svelter.By far the most frustrating aspect of the book is the "he says" indicators that seem, in Mantel's writing, to indicate no one. Why the hell can't she use a clear pronoun antecedent? Who's being referenced? I found myself counting backwards in conversations to figure out who was saying what, eventually settling on Cromwell, because, well, the book is 3rd person limited about him. With the book's length and its complicated historical material, I needed these indicators to be less nebulous. (Really, it was terrible and not nearly as charming as Hemingway's penchant for that sort of thing.) Mantel is obviously a gifted writer, who probably does nothing unintentionally, so this must be her way of being playful or making some symbolic point about something or other, right? These man and ladies of the court and religious orders struggle and fight for coveted spots in an always shifting, ephemeral power order, so mostly they'll say anything to get ahead. Perhaps Mantel was trying to show us that ultimately it didn't matter exactly who said what, as characters are always shifting allegiances and saying what they have to in order to avoid obscurity and loss of power.So why even finish the book? Admittedly, I skimmed a whole bunch of the convoluted mess. But Hilary Mantel can write. She knows how to put together a perfect sentence or a dazzling paragraph. And she writes delicious, really scrumptious, descriptions. A touch, a whisper, a glance, a question --- these things are rendered like still-life masterpieces. One feels as if one is in the sun dappled room with Lady Mary Carey when she whispers some piece of devastating court news to Cromwell, or with the ladies as they cross stitch'n bitch (couldn't resist that), or the Emperor of France at Calais as he questions Cromwell's past. Mantel writes Anne Boleyn's disingenuousness with such flair that I would sometimes skip ahead until I found a section of the novel dealing with her or her immediate circle. Henry is dynamic and real, too. Mantel renders him strong and certain, but simultaneously unsure regarding his personal affairs, and deeply troubled about his legacy and his role in history. He has absolute power and is absolutely masculine, but he can't stop obsessing about what people are saying behind his back. And there's his aching need for a male heir that overshadows everything he does both publicly and privately.So much of this work irked me, but when Mantel writes strictly Cromwell and his immediate family or Cromwell with Henry and Katherine/Anne at court, she's pretty scintillating. She can also really do intertextuality. There's a scene where Hans Holbein reveals his famous portrait of Thomas Cromwell to Cromwell and his family, and we, modern readers who've probably come across the portrait before, are forced to confront our view of Cromwell from a contemporary standpoint, as he, (and the painting) has come down to us though history, but we're also allowed, encouraged, to see him as he sees himself and as his family views him. Mantel pulls a kind of postmodern move. She's completely revised Cromwell. Being so Machiavellian, so obsequious, and so ruthlessly ambitious has rarely been so right or correct, especially after Mantel deftly shows us the kind of life Cromwell was born into. And man! did he pick up oodles of fascinating and useful knowledge and a whole bunch of street cred on his path to the top.Also, a few more things that might interest potential readers: I love the use of present tense in this work. Writers don't often use it, but I think it adds a sense of immediacy, especially to historical fiction and to a story that most of us at least know something about. Mantel writes in modern English so that there's no grappling with archaic wordings. The novel ends as Anne Boleyn fails to produce the longed-for male heir and is consequently out of favor with the king and court. Jane Seymour, from Wolf Hall, is about to be fully wooed. Thomas More has lost his head but Thomas Cromwell still has his. Sequel on its way...If you can trudge through the muddle and the boredom, you'll be rewarded with glimmers of brilliant writing and an unparalleled knowledge of the Reformation and all aspects of life in Henry VIII's England.
4 Great insight into Cromwell, but could use more pronouns so you know who's talking. Bring Up the Bodies is even better.
3 Thomas Cromwell makes a really dull protagonist, I guess it's a function of the character's personality.  There are so many characters named Thomas that I often found the dialog hard to follow.  Interesting look at religious intolerance and the church's role in politics but lets face it the Tudors have been a little overdone lately.
3 I don't place much value on prizes - or best-seller lists - to help me decide what to read.  But I have found that the Man Booker Prize is usually awarded to a book of extraordinary depth and originality, so I follow this prize when looking for gems.  Noteworthy among the titles I found among Man Booker winners or short-listed titles were:  Disgrace by J.M. Coetzee (1999), Life of Pi by Yann Martel (2002), On Chesil Beach (2007) and Atonement (2001) by Ian McEwan, and White Tiger by Aravind Adiga (2008). These are all must reads...up there with The Essays of Montaigne  and The Screwtape Letters by C.S. Lewis.  That is why I was so disappointed by Wolf Hall, by Hilary Mantel, the 2009 Man Booker Prize winner.Wolf Hall is undeniably a tour de force.  It is the story of Thomas Cromwell's ascent to power and fortune during Henry VIII's notorious reign.  Unlike other historical or fictional accounts of the era that I have read, this one paints a sympathetic portrait of Cromwell and depicts in vivid and convincingly accurate detail the way of life during those times.  Some of the language is breathtaking and the author's eye/word coordination is admirable.  My chief criticism of the book, however, is that the author seems more determined to impress the reader with her cleverness and wit, as well as knowledge of historical events, than she is in moving us forward and touching us inward with the extraordinary emotional impact that these events must have had on the characters.  Instead of a riveting story, we are left with a rather pretentious accounting.  Mantel also introduces what seems like hundreds of characters, none of which emerge as truly important to the story except Cromwell of course.  These characters appear as cameos and bit players; just as we start to think we could get involved with them they disappear.  I would have liked to know more about Cromwell's father and wife, the nun who feigns to see the future, etc.  The characters are just props to set the stage with.I enjoyed the portrayal of Cromwell himself as a kind of Dick Cheney to Henry VIII's George Bush - a master manipulator, behind the scenes string puller.  Ironically, both Henry VIII and George Bush have something else in common...they seem proof that the choices leaders make really can change history.
2 My deaughter in law really likes this book, so different tastes...  I can't read about unrelieved gloom and sorrow, I don't remember dates only people. Clever author, good subject, just not for people who like to see the hopeful side of things.
5 Wolf Hall is one of the best works of historical fiction I've ever read.  The book deals with the reign of Henry VIII of England from just before he meets Anne Boleyn to just after the execution of Thomas More.  It is told from the viewpoint of Thomas Cromwell, who was Henry's right-hand man after the fall of Cardinal Wolsey and one of the most feared men in England, although the book presents Cromwell sympathetically.The book doesn't coddle the reader on the history -- the first few chapters are tough going if you don't already know something about the era and the players, but happily, it doesn't much matter.  Since the book is chiefly about just a few people (Henry VIII, Katherine of Aragon, Anne Boleyn, Cardinal Wolsey, Thomas Cromwell, Thomas Cramner, and the Dukes of Suffolk and Norfolk), it isn't important if you can't follow everyone, although your reading will definitely be enhanced if you know, for instance, that Jane Seymour is destined to become Henry's wife after Henry has Anne beheaded, or that Mark Smeaton will be accused of being Anne Boleyn's lover.  If you aren't that familiar with the history, however, the book is still enjoyable -- the important thing is to follow Cromwell and the few other key characters.  Unfortunately, as others, have noted, that can be difficult.The author has the habit of using the pronoun "he" not to refer to the man to whom she has just devoted entire sentences or paragraphs, but to someone entirely different, usually, but not always, Cromwell.  It makes reading slow going, as you sometimes have to back up and reread entire portions when you realize they haven't made sense with the logical grammatical reading.  It took me about 200 pages to get used to it and it was still problematic at times.  On the plus side, however, it lends a sort of cold, passive feeling to Cromwell, which is intended to represent his public face, the one that increasingly comes to be the only one he has, and it contrasts nicely with the personal Cromwell, of whom we get an inside and very human look.The author has a great deal of disdain for Thomas More (the "Man for All Seasons"), who is usually presented more than just sympathetically, and it's fun to see the usual depictions turned on their heads in favor of more accurate portrayals.  The author has obviously done her research thoroughly.  But mostly this book is great because of the writing.  In spite of the problems with pronouns, this is a beautifully written novel, and one that avoids the tendancy in so much historical fiction to overexplain the era.  Yes, it makes the book harder to follow -- but it makes it a real book, one that favors rich characterization to explain history and avoids falling so in love with the history that it forgets what makes a story great.
5 The development of Cromwell's character and the interplay of Court principals is fascinating. This novel could certainly led to others set in Henry's time.
5 If you are a Tudor era buff like me, you'll love this book.  It takes a much maligned figure like Thomas Cromwell and almost makes him a hero since it is told by his point of view.  Very very good story even though you've heard it all before.
5 It takes a brave writer to tackle the perceptions surrounding one of the most famous hero/villain duets in British culture, Sir Thomas More and Thomas Cromwell (the other two, of course, being Sherlock Holmes and Moriarty, and Doctor Who and The Master). The picture of the saintly, scholarly and faithful unto death Thomas More being outmaneuvered by the cunning, beetlebrowed bureaucrat Thomas Cromwell is pretty firmly fixed in most people's heads. But Hilary Mantel does an absolutely masterful job of turning this picture upside down, and repainting More as a canting, sadistic fanatic and Cromwell as a man whose dogged determination and undying loyalty to his family, his country, and his patrons brings him somewhere very close to being a hero.Mantel's grasp of not only historical detail but historical scope is breathtaking. The big picture--England's role in international politics--is an ever present backdrop to the everyday goings on of Cromwell's life, household, and family, and Mantel skillfully shows how history can lurch in a completely new direction not necessarily because of the forces of market and economics, but because of the whims of those who find themselves in power and the behind the scenes machinations of those who work for them. "Not in our stars, but in ourselves," indeed. Thomas Cromwell is a man who seizes his own destiny--and that of his country--with both hands.The book itself is a magnificent read. Thomas Cromwell--brilliant, self-effacing, laconic, and dry--is as compelling a character as any ever written. Mantel moves her plot along at breakneck speed--I couldn't wait to find out what happened next. The court politics are dazzling--each faction, each person is lovingly drawn, every scandal is deliciously gossipy. But the book's real accomplishment, in my view, is that it uses the medium of fiction--the novel--to accomplish bold and scrupulously-researched revisionist history. Wolf Hall aims to educate and entertain, and accomplishes both aims brilliantly. Hilary Mantel, as novelist and historian is a formidable talent in two different spheres.
4 Ok, it was a bit long, and there were a lot of characters to remember. And, yes, the 'pronoun issue' was often confusing.  Enough whinging: this is a great book.  Wolf Hall is beautifully written, with vivid characters and excellent dialog.  This book managed to make me interested in Tudor England, which is a feat in itself.  I can't wait to start the sequel.
3 First off, I had to read this for a book group, so I did not read other folks' reviews before I bought the book.  I usually don't agree with the pack.As I read the book, I was feeling very confused about the characters.  On Kindle, you can't see the family lineage chart, so that wasn't helpful.  The 'search this book' feature wasn't indexed, so I couldn't look up the characters for past reference.  There are many conversations between 2 and 3 males, and then the next sentence says 'he said, he thought, he did'....  which he?  So I ended up rereading many passages and it really slowed me down.  I wondered if this was intentional, to create an air of palace intrigue, or to create a historical distance between the reader and the events.  The result for me was that it made it more difficult to get lost in the story.I love the Brits and the monarchy, and I certainly learned lots.  I also thought the characters were well depicted.  I did enjoy it, I just found that it was difficult reading.
3 I agree with some of the other reviewers that this book could use some fairly substantive re-editing.The prose is well-imagined to the era; however, there are problems in many passages with pronouns-- one simple doesn't know which character is being referred to in the action.  (And usually I don't have a problem with vague-ish pronouns, here, it was definitely an issue.)  Some additional editing could have solved this.I also was disappointed with the ending.  It just trails off when things are really beginning to go downhill for the Boleyns.  I would rather it have gone (or even jumped with some flashbacks) to T. Cromwell's death.  As this was my first real introduction to this person-- does Cromwell have any dalliance with Jane Seymour?  Does he remain unmarried?  Does he keep on the good side of Henry VIII?  When the Boleyns fall, do the Cromwell family fortunes suffer?I bought this after a glowing recommendation from Melanie Phillips.  I don't think it to be as masterful as her description.  Certainly after reading some of Mantel's opinions on certain things (perhaps its better for fiction authors and celebreties to just write or act and not talk too much), I won't be buying any of her other works.
5 "Wolf Hall" won the Booker Prize last year, and the prize was certainly well-deserved. One might wonder how the story ofHenry VIII and Anne Boleyn could ever be told with a new twist, but Mantel does it, by entering the mind of Thomas Cromwell. Based on my general knowledge of the period, Cromwell usually doesn't come off that well--he was ambitious and cutthroat,cimbing over men of higher rank to become the most powerful advisor to Henry, as the influence of his mentor Wolsey faded. In "Wolf Hall," Cromwell is just smarter, cannier and more resourceful than the others, who despise him for his lowly origins. Thomas More, on the other hand, a saint in the Catholic Church and quite popular in Catholic legal circles, is portrayed as a pinched, rigid dogmatist, who happily sends people to be burned at the stake in the service of his faith.Mantel's writing is indeed complex, and the plot takes a lot of twists and turns. She interestingly varies the point of view of her main character without warning, moving seamlessly from Cromwell's internal dialog to the view of the omniscient narrator, which can be confusing but also gives the reader the sense of both inhabiting Cromwelll's thoughts and observing him from afar. Mark the table of characters in the front; you'll need it. But I loved the book, and eagerly await the sequel.
5 I loved this book, and must disagree with a 'critic' who found it dreadful.  Yes, the characters can be confusing at times, but this book is far from dreadful.  It's not a bodice-ripping romance, and it's not fantasy nor science fiction.  The author has thoroughly researched her subjects and brings to life a time period that is pivotal in the history of the world, not just England, and seeing it through Cromwell's perspective is unique.  I would suggest that if you choose to read this book you take your time, and savor it.
5 Maybe you have to have tried to balance loyalty and your own inner compass. Maybe you have to experienced how freedom diminishes with increasing power. Maybe you have to have seen the triumph of nepotism over merit. Maybe you have to have seen love in many forms and degrees.In any case, I found Thomas Cromwell's life and world utterly convincing and absorbing.I listened to the audio version. The reader did a magnificent job of making the many characters fully recognizable and sympathetic.
5 Wow. What a book, and so worthy of the Booker Prize. This is the story of Henry VIII told from the viewpoint of Thomas Cromwell. Cromwell was Wolsey's man, and stood by Wolsey throughout his exile from Henry's court. That steadfastness earned him the attention of his king. The book recounts Cromwell's rise to power (no, don't be confusing him with Oliver) in Henry's court. Along the way, we witness Anne Boleyn's rise and Katherine's fall. (I had forgotten that Katharine was the daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella of Spain -- the same monarchs who sent Columbus on his voyages of discovery.) The book ends with the death of Thomas More, and seems primed for a sequel somewhere down the road.The story is told in the first person by Cromwell. It is told in present-tense throughout. This takes a little patience as you figure out who is speaking within a given scene, but within the first 50 pages or so, you've accustomed to it.This is a story that has been told often from many points of view. It is the language that makes this one very special. The author makes a point without belaboring it, and you have to sometimes reread a section to appreciate what just happened. Some examples:The author displays subtlety -- Cromwell has been writing to the exiled Wolsey in the north of England: "Johane complains of her daugher's poor sewing, and it seems that transferring the needle surreptitiously into her wrong hand, the child has devised an awkward little backstitch which you would be hard-pushed to imitate. She gets the job of sewing up his dispatches for the north."There is humor -- Cromwell is meeting with some alchemists in a seedy tavern in Calais: "He calls for the boy, and asks him without much hope what he suggests. 'Drink somewhere else?' the boy offers."And, when Anne Boleyn has asked Cromwell to wear scarlet to the coronation because she doesn't want him dressed in black like a lawyer, she asks him, "Is that crimson? It's a very black crimson. Did you go against my orders?" [Cromwell answers:] "Your cousin Francis Bryan says I look like a travelling bruise." "A contusion on the body politic."There is irony -- "The princess [Elizabeth], unswaddled, had been placed on cushions at Anne's feet: an ugly, purple, grizzling knot of womankind, with an upstanding ruff of pale hair and a habit of kicking up her gown as if to display her most unfortunate feature." (That she was not a boy...)And great wisdom, "When you are writing laws you are testing words to find their utmost power. Like spells, they have to make things happen in the real world, and like spells, they only work if people believe in them."This is a long book, at 650 pages in the edition I read, but it moved very quickly. I didn't want it to end. Of course, people probably did not really talk as eloquently and cleverly as this, but it is nice to think that it is so. Read this book. You will enjoy it greatly.
1 I tried to read this book.  It was one of the worse books that I have ever read!  I returned this book back to the book store!  Horrible!
3 The plot initially was good. The writing okay. I think I lost it somewhere before the ending. But it did capture the mood of the times. I lived them so I know.JoAnn
5 I got the book on a Wednesday and by the following week had finished it. It was so riveting I couldn't put it down (except to work). It has a very detailed picture of the time full of smells and tastes and culture at all levels, with an equally interesting point of view: I'd always read Thomas Cromwell as a villain and he certainly isn't in this exciting present tense work. I've recommended it to all my reading friends.
5 I wish I had discovered this author sooner. A most  enjoyable encounter with fascinating history in all its glorious machinations.
5 award winning book was really interesting. I really liked the characters. This was an historical novel. I liked it better than the sequel
5 She an incredible writer!This must be in your collection.The Red Fur Room[...]A novel based on a true story. A coming of age experience of a naive young man named Sali Hand from a small southern town built on textile mills. With his boyhood friend they unwittingly visit an isolated coastal city, fallen to decay, for a town ritual.  Hidden under a canopy of old oak trees drapped in spanish moss the beauty of this old place immediately arrests Sali's imagination and wonderous curiosity, and his heart is intoxicated with his first love. Incidentally Sali will not return home, and consequently his friend's destiny will leave him in pieces to be found hidden throughout the grand park that is home to the blight after dark. With certainty a plague will soon seep in from the trees and began slowly distilling the life from Sali's new found friends casting him into a dark nightmare he may not escape. With the rising hot air the spanish moss sweeps gracefully in slow rhythm over the arms that have embraced a culture for hundreds of years. It  will now set the town on fire with fear.Due out this fall 2013
2 I've slogged my way through half of this book, and I'm ready to give up.  Mantel has come up with a very good gimmick - recasting Thomas Cromwell as a thoughtful and caring humanist/realist, but she unfortunately isn't a very good writer.  There's only one point of view, minimal character development, and the pacing is so glacial that there's not much plot or story.  It's very much like reading an online blog of random thoughts and events, only this one goes on for 500 pages.
5 Five stars is not enough for this novel. It's amazing how Hilary Mantel could take the bare bones of history and create a world of living breathing characters, amazing dialogue and even humor out of a world full of tension, disease, hate and fear.Johanna Hurwitz
5 Very good writing by Hilary Mantel, she humanizes a historical figure that is usually vilified in a way that makes sense.  That is not easy to do.
1 Totally tedious - didn't finish. Henry's pursuit of a son is intriguing stuff, but Mantel approach makes impossible to follow.
2 I've been reading WOLF HALL since January and finally finished it last week. I usually read about a book a week, but kudos to author Hilary Mantel for turning a pleasurable pastime into a formidable chore. If my New Year's resolution hadn't been to finish what I start (there are several unfinished projects at my house), I would never have stuck with these 532 stuporous pages.  It's difficult to understand why WOLF HALL won the Man Booker prize, although it is an admittedly impressive achievement to turn the story of Henry VIII, Ann Boleyn and Thomas More, one of the most inherently interesting in all of history, into a confusing and dull form of penance.  As has been repeatedly noted in these reviews, it is often difficult to know who is speaking.  This is directly related to a specific peculiarity of the author's style.  I eventually caught on after 150-200 pages, but by that point I was so annoyed that there was no recapturing my good will.  Not once was I transported to another time and place.  Actually that's not true at all.  I was repeatedly transported to other times and other places while reading WOLF HALL,  just not to sixteenth century England.The book isn't trash.  It is obviously well researched, and some of the characterizations are good (ie Katherine of Aragon and her daughter, Mary, for instance).  Also the portrayal of Sir Thomas More, so vastly different from what we've come to know through A MAN FOR ALL SEASONS, was interesting.  But Henry comes across as something of a milquetoast.  It's hard to believe that the actions of this King rocked Europe for a century.
4 An interesting book with an intersting perspective on a relatively obscure figure in a turbulent period of English history.  The protagonist's POV was a little hard to follow at times.  I enjoyed it a lot.
5 I'm not history wonk, but this is a surprisingly good read.  Others can comment on the historical accuracy.  All I know is I enjoyed it and anxiously await the sequel.
4 Deservedly a Booker Prize winner, this ambitious story conveys a novel of ideas as well as of (half-)familiar figures. It narrates an unlikely hero, a flawed protagonist, a conniving yet moral-minded man at the heart of the court of Henry the Eighth, as he plots to divorce Katherine of Aragon so as to marry Anne Boleyn. Many reviewers have emphasized Thomas Cromwell's role here as bitterly opposed to Thomas More, but Hilary Mantel presents both chancellors as equally obstinate in their convictions. To Cromwell, service and loyalty to his king coincide with his determination to free England from subservience to outmoded ritual and oppressive mindsets; Cromwell recognizes his master's flaws, but he remains faithful to his wishes, and as the king's fortunes increase, so do Cromwell's.Along the way, we meet many of those who oppose the king's sexual and imperial desires. But Hilary Mantel refuses to caricature Mary Tudor, Katherine, those executed for their Catholic resistance, or the many figures forced to save their lives or their livelihoods as they choose between England and Rome, "the living against the dead" as Henry declares his realm as an empire freed from the Pope. She evokes sympathy for More's victims, those burned or disemboweled for their courage, and she shows how More himself expected more than what he gave those he persecuted and condemned when it came to final mercy. Yet she does not allow More in these pages to become a cartoon, and she carefully explores his own predicament, infuriating as More's refusals are to his foe Cromwell.This material over five hundred complicated pages holds up astonishingly well. I had to consult the chart of the characters more than once (lots of Marys and Thomases) and Mantel integrates their complex fates, providing contexts-- if often very subtly-- to convey essential information: it all comes from the direct observation, hearsay or indirect reporting of Cromwell himself, a difficult feat to pull off smoothly for an audience so far distant from these tumultuous times, ones so often presented in cartoonish fashion or garbled summation. Technically, this requires patience on the reader's part, as Mantel chooses a perspective that doggedly must be followed, even if angles and distortions enter the vantage point of Cromwell's largely unruffled consciousness. My only reservation is that this exacting method in which the tale is told, via "he" as Cromwell, can be momentarily confusing in the passages when others enter in the same third-person; the movement from one male character to Cromwell and back can be very slight, and demands attention.The humor and wit may be sparse but all the more welcome. In this era of the rise of individualism and humanism, ideas leap out, for this is a novel not only about characters and alliances and defiances, but about the slow arrival of early modern society. In 1530, Henry hears from Cromwell about the monks: "It cannot always be Lent. What I cannot stomach is hypocrisy, fraud, idleness--their worn-out relics, their threadbare worship, and their lack of invention. When did anything good last come from a monastery? They do not invent, they only repeat, and what they repeat is corrupt. For hundreds of years the monks have held the pen, and what they have written is what we take to be our history, but I do not believe it really is. I believe they have suppressed the history they don't like, and written one that is favorable to Rome." (180) This has the force of eloquence, as spoken by a wise, fervent counselor to a monarch.The shift in power later comes to mind as Cromwell humiliates a would-be suitor of Anne, Harry Percy: "The world is not run from where he thinks." Not the Scottish borders, let alone London, but from mercantile centers in Antwerp, Florence, even Lisbon. "Not from castle walls, but from countinghouses, not by the call of the bugle but by the click of the abacus, not by the grate and click of the mechanism of the gun but by the scrape of the pen on the page of the promissory note that pays for the gun and the gunsmith and the powder and shot." (310) Cromwell's eye for details, of fabric from his past as a wool merchant, from his father's trade as a blacksmith, and from Cromwell's negotiations as soldier, businessman, and now diplomat infuse such moments.Tension permeates this novel, as individual lives are sacrificed and a nation's direction waits upon the dictates of kings and popes, parliaments and supplicants. "The fate of peoples is made like this, two men in small rooms. Forget the coronations, the conclaves of cardinals, the pomp and processions. This is how the world changes: a counter pushed across a table, a pen stroke that alters the force of a phrase, a woman's sigh as she passes and leaves on the air a trail of orange flower of rose water; her hand pulling close the bed curtain, the discreet sigh of flesh against flesh." (499)"The king is good to those who think him good." (318) This barbed motto could serve as the theme for Cromwell's unsparing tone and the slogan for those who must remain under the service of their king, or who must oppose him to protect their Catholic, European, or personal interests. By 1535 as this novel ends, Cromwell is at his zenith even as Anne Boleyn begins to waver in her sex appeal to the king who has overturned Christendom in order to wed and bed her. Her marriage has not brought the male heir the king craves; meanwhile we see Elizabeth as "the ginger pig in the cradle," bristly haired and angry.Staring down a doomed More, Cromwell in the disgraced statesman's cell notes how even in summer, More has drawn the shades, as his books have been taken away. "A handful of hail smacks itself against the window. It startles them both; he gets up, restless. He would rather know what's outside, see the summer in its sad wreckage, than cower behind the blind and wonder what the damage is." (519) More represents the overturned realm of the past, full of obesiance to papism and suppression of thought; Cromwell for all his faults seeks to illuminate the possibility of a freer world where a Bible in English may be read, ideas considered without imprisonment, and where people begin to learn to think for themselves.Still, Cromwell ends this novel in his own limitations, even as he is to follow the king away from London, the day of More's execution. Cromwell will seek out the Seymours who live at Wolf Hall; their daughter Jane has caught Cromwell's eye as a lady-in-waiting in the Boleyn employ. That episode and the next five years, it is to be hoped, will provide a sequel as Cromwell himself learns the vagaries and passing fancies of the monarch whom he seeks to please.
2 I found this book tedious and uninteresting.  The characters were one dimensional and lacked connections to me.  I may not be a reader of Tutor English novels.  This is the first winner of the Man Booker award which I have not thoroughly enjoyed.
5 The first of Hilary Mantel's trilogy of the life and fortunes of Thomas Cromwell. Shows his life from boyhood, suffering at the hands of his father, and how he escaped his often drunken inn-keeper/blacksmith father to become a mercenary soldier in Europe and later a merchant banker,acquired a great facility with languages. Appears to have an adventurous mind: friendly towards an English translator of the Bible into  English but working/hiding in the Netherlands while Henry opposes any such translation; a religious skeptic in age of Religious Wars and Persecutions - intertwined with politics of course. Hilary Mantel is a double Booker Prize winner, 2009 and 2012, which fact makes any trivial review of mine superfluous. Totally good books, both of them.
5 Good writers have the ability to transport readers to different worlds by the simple medium of words. Hilary Mantel is one of them.The story of Henry VIII and his many marriages has been told before. But this is a version seen from another angle. Henry, Anne Boleyn and the stars in other depictions here become pawns of another player's game. Though it is Henry's and Anne's desire for a marriage blessed, if not sanctified, by the church around which much of the book centers, it is the character and vision of Thomas Cromwell provides the driving force and interest.Cromwell, deftly portrayed as the pragmatic genius he obviously was, is made admirable, if not totally likeable by Mantell. We are made privy to his inmost thoughts and motivations as he maneuvers Henry, Anne and the peers of the realm to achieve his goal of transforming the medieval kingdom to a modern nation.Cromwell rises from the abused child of a brutal blacksmith to a renaissance man who "can draft a contract, train a falcon, draw a map, stop a street fight, furnish a house and fix a jury." He manipulates Henry, Anne and the rest of the scheming Boleyn family to achieve his end of wresting Britain from beneath the heel of Romish domination.In other versions Cromwell has been depicted as a Machiavellian upstart while Thomas More is the stalwart saint defending religious faith even at the cost of his life. Here Cromwell is plausibly shown as a devoted family man who wants a better life for the commoners, a loyal friend and mentor to many younger men. He even shows compassion for his enemies, providing them with means to escape the worst fate has in store for them. In contrast, More is a petty, stubborn religious zealot who mistreats his wife, abuses servants and tortures alleged heretics.And, with our foreknowledge of history, Wolf Hall, seat of the Seymour family, looms in the distance as a reminder of what's to come.No easy beach-read this. There's a confusing array of names and titles to remember, the panorama of historical events and the shifting points of view. But, then, if it's only diversion you seek, why not just watch TV?This is a book to savor. I've read a sequel is in the works. I'm eager to read it.
5 I was given this book as a present shortly after it came out.  I read the first 15 pages or so and thought it was good but it didn't draw me in and so it sat on my shelf for years.  I finally returned to it and, after reading a bit more, became enthralled.  The writing is brilliant--admittedly, unorthodox as well.  The book demands, and commands, your attention, and rewards you richly for it.  This has become one of my favorites of the past several years.
4 In the grubby little town of Putney, Thomas Cromwell grows up fighting -- sometimes with other boys, sometimes with his brutish father, Walter. After one too many bloody kickings by Walter, Thomas decides it's time to get out, though not just because of his father's murderous behavior: In his boot-addled memories, Thomas fears he may have killed someone in a fight by the river."He thinks there might have been a knife in it somewhere; and whoever it was stuck in, it wasn't him, so was it by him? All this is unclear in his mind. What is clear is his thought about Walter: I've had enough of this. If he gets after me again I'm going to kill him, and if I kill him they'll hang me, and if they're going to hang me I want a better reason."If he's going to fight, he figures, he might as well beat up Frenchmen, so he sets out from Putney, looking for a war to join. What seems to infuriate Walter so much is the boy's natural intelligence. Not only can he read and write -- a rarity in these here parts -- he manages to pick up Welsh simply by keeping company with the people who speak it. And rather than beating on Frenchmen, he ends up learning from them. In fact, during his soldiering, Cromwell learns much from every nationality he contacts: French, Spanish, Italian, German and so on. Though his fighting prowess comes in handy, it's Cromwell's mind rather than his fists that brings him into the employ of Thomas Wolsey, archbishop of York, a couple of decades down the road. As the cardinal's "man of business," Cromwell meets his "most devoted enemy," Stephen Gardiner.Cromwell makes no shortage of enemies as Wolsey's designated arm twister: "Bow to the inevitable, he urges. Deference to the lord cardinal. Regard his watchful and fatherly care; believe his keen eye is fixed on the ultimate good of the church. These are the phrases with which to negotiate."Cromwell marvels at Thomas More, "a star in another firmament." Where More is bedrocked in his conviction of what is truth, Cromwell's doubts grow alongside his knowledge. "Show me where it says, in the Bible, 'Purgatory.' Show me where it says 'relics, monks, nuns.' Show me where it says 'Pope.'" While More, Defender of the Faith, condemns Martin Luther and William Tyndale, Cromwell stashes their forbidden texts in his home and encourages his family to read and learn. The cardinal practices a kind of moderate tolerance: "Wolsey will burn books, but not men."Wolsey does not tolerate Anne Boleyn's sexual social climbing, and that contributes to his fall from favor with the mercurial King Henry VIII, who decides to turn the archdiocese into the Boleyn boudoir and sends Wolsey into exile to await charges of treason for letting the Lutheran heresy spread. Though it grieves him to leave the ailing cardinal, Cromwell wrangles a job in Parliament under the supervision of Anne Boleyn's uncle, Thomas Howard, duke of Norfolk. It's here that Cromwell snags Boleyn's attention:"Her eyes passed over him on their way to someone who interested her more. They are black eyes, slightly protuberant, shiny like the beads of an abacus; they are shiny and always in motion, as she makes calculations of her own advantage. But Uncle Norfolk must have said to her, 'There goes the man who knows the cardinal's secrets,' because now when he comes into her sight her long neck darts; those shining black beads go click, click, as she looks him up and down and decides what use can be got out of him."Cromwell also catches the ear of King Henry, who's half-impressed, half-irritated by Cromwell's candor and wisenheimer wit. During Lent, when Henry gives up nookie to stay by the side of his wife, Katherine, Anne Boleyn gets bored enough to summon Cromwell to fight with her. He matches her verbal volleys, word for word, in her native French. This gets to be a regular thing between them.In Boleyn's household, Cromwell meets one of her ladies-in-waiting, a "milk-faced creeper" named Jane, spying for the Seymour family: "Every rising family needs information. With the king considering himself a bachelor, any little girl can hold the key to the future."Henry values Cromwell's counsel so much that he decides to make it official and advances Cromwell to the position of councillor. As such, Cromwell proves integral to the king's efforts to pull England from the influence of Holy Mother Church, so Henry can play pattyfingers without the Catholic guilt trip and save a few bucks on annates to Rome. And so the ranks of Cromwell's enemies grow, including Queen Katherine and her perpetually ailing daughter, Mary (who reminds me of that creepy little kid from the movie "Dune").From kitchen gossip to pillow talk to Westminster whispers to sport sniping in the king's court, it all reaches Cromwell, who tucks away each bit of information until he can deploy it to maximum effect. He just as carefully guards information about himself. "It is the absence of fact that frightens people: the gap you open, into which they pour their fears, fantasies, desires." Cromwell's foes never miss an opportunity to point out his common origins, never realizing how hopelessly outmatched they are against "the cleverest man in England." It's not his low birth that's Cromwell's vulnerability: It's the thug that potentially lurks behind the veneer of law, the fear that he has a murder on his soul as a result of that riverside stabbing when he was a teen.Hilary Mantel's "Wolf Hall" is a capital-B Big Book (and it's only Part 1 in a projected trilogy). In trying to summarize it, I fear I've made it sound like the kind of stultifying textbook sadistic history or poli-sci teachers might inflict on high school students. Far from it. "Wolf Hall" is a book that's very much alive, rich in philosophy, robust in its humor. It has enough family drama for a Jonathan Franzen novel, power machinations to rival "The Godfather Part II" and the joyous thrust-and-parry of brilliant people who take every conversation as an opportunity to sharpen their wits. And, simply, "Wolf Hall" is a blast to read.There is a particular style oddity that should be noted: Mantel rarely refers to Cromwell by name. More often, she just writes "he" or "him." This can result in pronoun pileup when Cromwell interacts with other "hims." One could argue that Mantel intentionally plants these reader speedbumps to slow her audience down to get people to reread certain key passages. One could also argue that it's an artyfarty affectation and an attempt by Mantel to set herself apart from more prosaic historical novelists, the Folletts and the Cornwells. It doesn't matter that much. Mantel's writing is generally worthy of repeat reading.There are people who eagerly lap up every bit of tabloid coverage of the family ruling England today, every nip slip and bared buttock, every stumble, fumble, fashion faux pas and nostril hair gone awry. I've never understood such fascination. Didn't our unruly ancestors fight a war so we wouldn't have to pay attention to our betters in the aristocracy across the Atlantic? "Wolf Hall" tells of a larger-than-life era when British royals warranted that kind of attention.I am rather disappointed that Mantel didn't bother to write the classic banquet scene in which Henry decimates a leg of lamb and a barrel of ale. What would Charles Laughton say?
4 When Mantel won the Booker earlier this year for WOLF HALL, she was asked by a reporter what she would do with the large cash award.  Her reply was that writing a novel such as this one required many years of research and toiling at getting it down on paper in a palatable form, (I parapharase), and that the cash would go to paying the mortgage.  Totally understandable.The amount of historical information she had to process for this this novel had to be daunting.  Nearly every historical figure of the time of Henry VIII is included and given a speaking role.  Of necessity, the book becomes long and the characters sometimes sketchy, sometimes a "walk-on" with little or no distinguishing characteristics. It is therefore difficult to keep track of who's who when characters are referred to by their first names only, especially since there are several Annes (including Boleyn), Alices (including Thomas More's wife), and Thomases (including of course, Cromwell, through whose eyes the story is told.)This a wonderful read, and, improbably, a page-turner.  There is enough suspense created by Mantel, despite our knowing the historical outcomes, to keep us engaged and horrified at the detailed descriptions of burnings at the stake, beheadings, and other forms of cruelty of the period.
1 it was very difficult to follow the charaters and i quit after 100 pages...  I love reading about this period in time and read a book or two a week... but it just wasn't interesting enough to weed my through it... maybe it's better in hardback, but on the kindle it stunk.
5 This book may be very long and, apart from the Shardlake mysteries, this would normally put me off. But it's turned into a great intricate read - for anyone with a keen interest in this period, this book should be absolutely absorbing. It's quite fascinating to see Cromwell's introduction to the nobles of the privy chamber (Ann's "set") and to Mark Smeaton woven into the storyline.The only thing I'm not so keen on is that the main protagonist, Cromwell, is written about in the third person rather than the usual first person for the hero/heroine of a historical novel. This device also occasionally makes it tricky working out who is saying what. But it's been such a good read to date that I haven't marked it down for that reason.It really brings the period to life.
1 I bought this after Mantel won her second Booker Prize for the sequel to this book. I read as a work of fiction --- I haven't really read a lot of historical fiction and I only know the broad strokes of Henry VIII's reign.It was a pain to focus on the words on the page. Character development was almost nonexistent. Names are introduced and a page later they spout dialogue, then a chapter later they suddenly become important. There are so many unimportant characters and happenings that if trimmed out would have given the book a better pace. It is as if the author wanted to fit all the historical figures but didn't quite know how to use them to push the story forward. Events also just seem to suddenly happen without the reader getting an explanation of how and why. It seems like the novel assumes that one already knows a lot of the historical background and thus she doesn't bother to fill in missing details.I plodded through and finished it, hoping that towards the end the pace will pick up, or that I will find the characters relatable. I was disappointed. Many have commented that this book makes Thomas Cromwell seem sympathetic, but I guess you can say that only if you're well-versed in English history. Otherwise, reading about him as a main character in a novel, I did not find myself rooting for him or wondering what would happen to him.The verdict: read only if you are a fan of English history. Otherwise, stay away from it.
3 I am almost finished with this book and am enjoying it. Both Thomas Cromwell and Anne Bolyen came off completely different from the way had learned about them in history classes.
2 I emjoy historical novels, and Wolf Hall as a historical novel succeeds in giving a different view of Cromwell and Thomas More.  Both become more knowable: Cromwell less of a villan and More less of a saint.  You get the feel of Tudor England; you feel as if you could walk down its streets, which stank.  The beginning in which Cromwell is beaten by his father went on too long; but the imagined conversations seemed to fit in as part of the story.  The author has done her research, and I learned a lot without feeling that I was reading a history.(by cvs, the history honcho)
5 Very sympathetic and interesting portrayal of Henry VIII's advisor Thomas Cromwell. It also explores the political/social history of the times brilliantly
5 Wolf Hall is a marvelous novel. In its attention to historical detail, it matches Barbara Tuchman's histories. In its deep insights into characterization and motivation, it resembles Ecco's The Name of the Rose. Sir Thomas More has gotten all the favorable press over the years. Wolf Hall redresses the balance with a fully realized portrait of Thomas Cromwell. I look forward very much to volume two.
5 How pleasant to have a well-written, thoughtful work of historical fiction that focuses on people, rather than affairs of war or romance. The writing is not easy, but it's worth it.
5 Hilary Mantel must be the most talented woman on the planet. She completely transported me to England of the early 1500's. She was able to do this by including so many fascinating details about life at this time. For example, she tells exactly how small  spiced wafers were made and then put in small embossed boxes for gifts. She tells how jousting was done. Everything is told in great detail.I also fell in love with Thomas Cromwell, someone whom I had learned to despise during my study of English history. I developed a great respect for him as a truly self-made man during an era when few opportunities were given to those of lower birth. When I finished the book, I was  sorry to leave his company, so realistic was Ms. Mantel's characterization of him.This book is not an easy read--Ms. Mantel is obviously brainy and challenges her readers. After I became acclimated to her style, however, I was hooked. I was sneaking moments of reading time throughout the day. I would recommend this book to anyone seeking a truly gratifying literary experience.
2 This book won a major award nevertheless I am only giving it 2 stars. Even if I don't like a book, I will finish it in order to feel qualified to comment. However, I was unable to finish this book because I had great difficulty working out which character was talking and to whom they were talking. I could not get the gist of the conversations. In addition, I was unable to read this book everyday and if a few days had passed and I had not picked up the book, then I did not remember what had happened in the previous pages. I read 40% of the book before abandoning it and I have no idea what it was about or what the main storyline was.
4 Haven't read the Austen books yet. Don't like that they all came in a clump - hard to locate the one I want.
5 If there is one thing to be praised here it is Mantel's incredible command of language and style.  Though her unique portrayal of this period of Tudor history requires attention and consideration, the book as a whole is a solid example of a brilliantly executed novel.  The story follows Thomas Cromwell during his service to Cardinal Wolsey and his rise in English politics after Wolsey's demise. It is an unusual perspective, using third person, but with an insight to Cromwell's objectives.  This allows for an intimate glimpse into his aspirations and motivations, and also his family, his faith and his fate.  It is evident from the start that Cromwell is ambitions and calculating, but also humble and generous.  He plays defense quite well, trying hard not to offend, as he comes to the attention to the most powerful men in England.There are a number of key elements in Cromwell's story. Desperate to obtain a divorce and marry Anne Boleyn, Henry depends on Cromwell's skills to change the law to suit Henry's desires.  As Cromwell's favor rises with King Henry VIII, resentment brews among the nobles for his high status despite his low birth.  The time of great schisms within the church is also taking place and Cromwell reflects on his growing doubt of Catholic dogma, often questioning where it says anything about ceremony or hierarchy in the scriptures.  This also contributes to the collision of personalities between Cromwell and Thomas More, whose rank fell due to his opposition to the Act of Supremacy and his devotion to Rome.  Though both men harbor nothing but respect for each other, More is portrayed as sternly pious, impassive, unlikeable and ruthless in upholding his faith.All of the familiar characters from the era are present, but it is a huge cast, so I advise having some prior knowledge of Tudor history to fully enjoy this book.  I thought Cromwell was in a unique position to represent the attitude of many English of the time, and I was intrigued by the glimpse into his personal life and the workings of his brilliant mind.  Despite being misunderstood in the history books, I really enjoyed this interpretation of Cromwell as a self-made man who deserved all of the wealth and honor granted to him.
1 I have tried reading this book so many times it's a joke around our house! After al I did pay for it, and it did win an award. But I guess I have to chalk it up to experience and just give up on it, award or not! It is just plain bad. I have read excellent historical for 50 years now, and this one ust doesn't reach me. A lot if he sasid/she said, confusing, impossible to follow, boring, poor characterizations...can someone explain WHY this won an award? Print or audio didnt matter either, BOTH were horrible. PASS ON IT!
3 I started this book with the anticipation of learning more about the Tudor times and wasn't dissapointed.  However, the transitions from Cromwell, his father Walter, Henry VIII, and so forth was confusing.  I had to look back a few pages to see who she was actually talking about. Am reading her most recent and it's still the same.
5 Like many of  the other reviewers, I've visited  the rise and fall of Ann Boleyn and related events in books, movies, miniseries, tv documentaries, etc. I was curious about what a novel might do to bring something different  while not taking extreme liberties. Putting  Cromwell at the center and making him sympathetic worked very well for me. I had seen him as a clever opportunist, and viewing him as more principled witness  is a workable change of,perspective.I have no idea whether the presentation of his character has much to do with the core of the historical figure, I don't care because then book bills itself as a novel and I'm aware that there are different interpretations.Wolf Hall take some concentration; i wouldn't  recommend it for a setting with a lot of distractions.
2 I was quite disappointed in this book as was my entire book club. The author has the unfortunate habit of starting sentences with the pronoun &#34;he&#34; which she will not have refer back to the last person mentiioned. Frequently she is referring to Thomas Cromwell but it requires two readings to go back and try to figure out to whoim she is referring.
4 I recently visited The Frick Collection in New York. One of the great rooms features Holbein's portraits of Thomas More and Thomas Cromwell, each looking at the other across the room for eternity, or at least as long as the curators keep them there. More is more lavishly portrayed than Cromwell, perhaps reflecting their lives and personalities, or maybe the artist's affinity for one or the other. The paintings are a visual representation of the tensions and stances of the principals in those parts of the novel that are devoted to them. But "Wolf Hall" is much more than the classic More/Cromwell drama.Having read a number of the reviews, both 1 and 5 star designations, I have to say that I agree with elements of all of them! The writing style is often confusing and tortuous, as evidenced by the ubiquitous and unattributed use of the pronoun "he" and occasional stream-of-consciousness technique, yet the content is very well researched and the Thomas Cromwell point of view is engagingly provocative. Not merely the conniving villain of "A Man For All Seasons", rather, a smart, even talented entrepreneur whose human qualities and patriotic sentiments make the protagonist a Cromwell we can like and understand in many ways.This is not a novel for one who lacks at least a basic awareness of the main players from history. It is not an easy read. But it is one that I could not put off finishing. I'd rate it a 4 star and perhaps more telling of my evaluation is that I look forward to reading the sequel, irritating writing style notwithstanding.
1 About 1/3 of the way through this book, I deleted it from my Kindle. I have read many books on the Tudors but this one I simply couldn't get through.  It was boring, confusing and not even a little entertaining.  So disappointing...
5 Don't let the effort required at the start hold you back. Press ahead, it will fall into place and you'll get the rhythm of her writing. This is a masterpiece for anyone that favors Tudor England.
3 I am not certain why this is lauded so.  I find it plodding and the writing is just not the usual fiction style I like,  It is rather boring going along and i am not certain if it's because I know all the characters well from history.  I am disappointed and will definitely not read the sequel.
5 Hilary Mantel spins a captivating yarnWolf Hall is a tapestry with a rich palette of succulent imagery and savours. It is an epicurean delight for the senses.The author provides a luminous introspection into the intrigues and personalities around Henry VIII's divorce from Queen Katherine, with its fierce religious and political undercurrent.Ribald in parts, sometimes bawdy, it maintains a patient and methodical cadence, fully developing the characters and venues of the court and sanctuaries.Everyone has an agenda here, or is trying to stay out of harm's way of that of others. These are much different characters than that portrayed in the touchstone 'A Man for All Seasons'.Thomas More, by comparison is a tarnished saint, less than idealistic, Thomas Cromwell, more benign and practical, Anne Boleyn, is vain, plotting and cruel, Henry VIII, a man of grasping ambition, mediocre intellect and shrivelled conscience. It is the Cromwell, though, who Mantel chooses as her primary point of view, just short of making him the first person narrator. The border between the sacred and profane is loosely defined here.Lists of characters and genealogy provide a helpful reference. I found myself using it constantly to recall people, in the constantly recombining plots and subplots.Mantel's predilection for favouring pronouns in the place of proper names, which can lead to confusion in a less than attentive reader, is my one gripe with the book. It takes concentration to keep the complex epic composed in one's mind. But Mantel never gets bogged down. Twists and complications in the narrative merge seamlessly from many different points of origin.In my personal experience I often find women's fiction difficult and opaque. It is just not synchronous with my circadian reading rhythms. But this book adds an intensely provocative perspective of well trod subject matter. In fact it provides a compelling counterpoint to the conventional typecasting in the saga.This is a worthy recipient of the Booker by gifted writer.
3 The Story of Thomas Cromwell isn't one that is well known. The author writes a nice historical story about him. Could have been sharper, could have used editing in some places. I found myself skipping pages at a time to get back to the action in the story. But kudos to the author for illuminating this man's tale in a lively way.
4 Beautifully written.  Quite a gripping story bringing to life of a figure (Thomas Cromwell) of whom I had little knowledge, and would now like to know more, however from an accurate historical point of view.This would not be everyones cup of tea and would mainly appeal to persons like myself who love history.I ought to point out that my rating (&#34;I like It&#34;) is somewhat diminished because I found the characters confusing.  Everyone at that time appeared to be named 'Thomas', and Henry VIII went around handing out titles and I struggled to remember where everyone fitted in.  This was largely of my own making because I overlooked the Cast of Characters and the Family Tree sections - a disadvantage of reading a book on an e-reader, not a hardcopy.....I would recommend this book to my history loving family and friends.
5 A different and much more sympathetic view of Thomas Cromwell then that in other accounts of the time of Henry VIII
3 I am a huge fan of this period of English history but I find this book very hard to get read.  I have trouble identifying who is speaking at any given time.  It seems to jump around a lot.  I am disappointed because it was highly recommended.
5 Hilary Mantel is genius, or Thomas Cromwell took a very bad rap.  Whichever it is, this story is compelling.  Cromwell becomes a sympathetic character, that's not easy to do.
4 I felt it gave a great account of what went on in Early England with the church and the government.
3 With the vast array of characters available, I'm still trying to figure out why Mantel settled upon Cromwell. He's not especially kind, not especially interesting, and not especially rich or good looking. I guess, as one reviewer said, this gives an alternate angle on a much written about topic. The one thing that irritated me about this book was the ambiguous writing - it would appear that an actual blow's been struck, but then no, it was just a thought, and then a paragraph later it talks about the blow again. Well, was there a blow, or wasn't there? I don't want to guess, I'm reading, I WANT to be TOLD what happened. I read those paragraphs ten times and came away with the same conclusion - ????? I don't know. If you think you're going to get a fabulous Tudor family read, you'll be disappointed. The very brief times the Boleyn sisters appeared were the only times, for me, the book truly shined. There's a reason people write about them!
1 This author's use of prolific use of pronouns i.e. he, she, they throughout the book made it nearly impossible to follow the story line without looking back to ascertain who she was talking about.  I am an avid reader of historical nonfiction and I hated this book.  It was all I could do to finish it and I only did so because I'd paid for it and it is a book club selection for our book group.  She failed to draw me into this story and I had no trouble putting it down to do other things.  Let's all move on from the Boleyn's, Henry VIII et al and talk about other periods of history.
2 I was very disappointed in this book. The font throughout kept changing which made it hard to follow because passages were dropped or deleted. It made it a chore to finish.
1 I found it difficult to follow. Didn't like the characters.  I had heard such wonderful things about this book and I really was not impressed. I struggled halfway through and then gave up.
5 Great plot, main characters well drawn and captivating.  Not the one-night-page-turner, complex plots and lots and lots of English history.
4 My knowledge of English history being woefully scant, I looked forward to reading an interesting study of the households and lives of the Cromwell, Shelton, Tudor and Boleyn families. I  got what I asked for, and more. The writer confused me at first in the use of the pronoun "he". Not until quite a ways into the book did I determine that "he" meant Cromwell, not necessarily the most recent reference to a male in the story. Aside from that, I fell into the times of the 1500's with ease, not needing explanations of how different those times were. The people seemed like my contemporaries - just dropped into another century.The story caught and held my interest; reading on a Kindle was helpful also because a dictionary was always at hand when needed.  Since I tend to read lying down, holding the lightweight "book" was appreciated.I look forward to the next volume, and am hopeful that at least some of my sparse knowledge of England in the 1500's has been filled in.
4 Wolf Hall is a book you read in order to enjoy the act of reading, and it seems to me best savored in segments of maybe 10-20 pages at a time. The story line rambles forward with a sort of linear structure I thought more like a history book or biography than a novel. I agree with previous reviewers who found the "voice" hard to get used to. This is Cromwell's story but the device of the third person "he" with default towards Cromwell takes some getting used to. Personally I think it works...after you get used to it.The portrayal of life in 16th century in England is made very vivid with a sensual style of writing. The smells and sounds associated with everyday life are a character themselves in this book.The author's depiction of Thomas Cromwell as a man with deep feelings and a practical tendency towards non-sentimental self-reflection unfolds gradually. We really like this man. The author gives a good and human side to almost everyone, excepting a thinly drawn Stephen Gardiner, Cromwell's enemy. Even Anne Boleyn is sympathetically drawn, sort of.Back to the sights and sounds and smells...reading this book was a bit akin to going to a long movie with sumptuous sets and costumes, and a little bit of well-mannered sex. You are very satisfied at the end and feel that you learned, in a pleasant setting, a little about history and the human condition. Isn't there something rewarding about believing for a while that you can "feel" what it was like to live in London in 1535?I guess if there is a grand theme to Wolf Hall it is that history marches forward and that human foibles and strengths, as well as serendipity, shape its course. I found myself slightly confused about the convergence or ironic parallels (or rather the lack thereof) of Luther and the related heresies coming from Europe to England and the rejection of Henry VIII of the church of Rome. But I guess this book demonstrates, as only a novel that gets into people's heads (or one person in this case) could, that the idiosyncrasies and vagaries of individual humans' emotions influence history more than big events like plagues.
5 I love this kind of book! It is a very informative story. It incorporates a lot of data I've already researched, but in a pleasant and enjoyable read. I learned much more about Cromwell leading me to buy several more books about this man.
2 I love anything Tudors, but this really was quite the chore.  I was never quite sure who was narrating at the time and finally, after 275 pages, threw in the towel.  I hope that you have more patience than I do, I love reading, but I just couldn't slog through this to get to the payoff, and the idea of putting a book down before I have finished it I consider to be a sin.  Good luck!
3 This is a very interesting story that takes place during an interesting period in British history.  I was familiar in a vague sort of way with Cromwell-who to me is an almost Merlin type figure, without the sorcery, and with some principles.  I enjoyed the story and the details of all the maneuvering in the court of Henry VIII.  I had been warned about the overabundance of characters and that, quite frankly was not that much of a problem for me.  What I had trouble with was the jarring scene changes where you were suddenly in the midst of a whole new conversation and/or encounter without transition or warning.  Two people are having a conversation and one leaves the room and then another enters, but there is no indication that this is now a conversation between a new person and one of the previous conversationalists.  It can get quite confusing.  The prose is quite spare and not a lot of historical context is offered.  As others have suggested, it is a good idea to only read 100 or 150 pages at a time as it can be a bit tiring after a while.  A good book, a worthwhile read, I will read the rest of the trilogy for sure.
4 Bought this book in advance of the PBS series of the same name. It's an historical novel, so hard to determine what is fact and what is fantasy. Still a fun read.
3 I applaud the obvious level of effort that went into researching and creating this novel, with its innumerable characters and historical events.  But on a personal level, I really can't remember a less enjoyable reading experience.  I found the author's writing style to be difficult and obtuse (is this because the writer is English?  because of the time period covered in the book?).  For example, the author (and her editor) seemed to continuously, intentionally attempt to hide (and force the reader to guess) the identity of the speaker. These features forced me to go back and read paragraph after paragraph over and over, just to figure out what was happening.Additionally, even after getting through the language, I felt no connection to any of the characters.  Other than Cromwell, we never really got to know any of the thinking or motivations of the characters, leaving me completely indifferent to all of them.Bottom line, this book represented way too much unpleasant work for way too little of a return.  If I didn't have my hard and fast rule "if you start it, you finish it," I would have abandoned this book a long ago (as my wife and her good friend did).Given the many very favorable reviews and the awards this novel received, I appreciate that a reader may have a completely different experience from my own.  As such, I wouldn't suggest that one NOT read this book.  However, given the level of investment this book will require, I would strongly suggest that a reader consider the nature of this book carefully (perhaps reading a few pages) before diving into it.
4 I am not British and enjoyed the way the author brought to life this interesting time in history.  She focuses on the people, and leaves to the reader to consider how different these times were from our own--culturally, economically, technologically, the great significance of the separation of England from the Pope, the evolution of the English character, separate from the continent and even the elements that are now part of Great Britain, eg. Scotland.  She also addresses Thomas Cromwell in the third person &#34;he&#34;, while almost making it a first person account.  A pleasure to be transported back in time, and entertained by this author.
5 No disappointment-- the second book of Mantel's Richard Cromwell trilogy as good as the first--the third is late--Mantel has been ill-- while you wait, try, A Place of Greater Safety, her historical novel about Danton and Robespierre--how the Revolution, like Saturn, ate its own -- Mantel is peerless--if you haven't yet read her, you've a treat in store
2 I could handle the huge cast of characters.  I could grumpily handle the multitude of flashbacks.  But given all that, I can't deal with so many paragraphs and chapters going on and on about 'him" or "he" and me not knowing who the author had in mind!  300 pages of this madness is enough.  Life is too short--I quit!
5 Well-written.  Really different. A fascinating view of Henry VIII and the people who surrounded him.I'm off to the library to get the sequel this afternoon.
5 Having read a number of historical fiction books about the King Henry-Anne Boleyn time period, I thought I knew a bit it.  Turns out I know a lot but only about a few people.  Hilary Mantel went in a completely different direction with her novel, portraying Anne, Queen Katherine and even Henry himself as minor characters.  Her protagonist is Thomas Cromwell, and his life is detailed exquisitely.  From his rise as Cardinal Wolsey's right-hand man, through Wolsey's downfall and death, and then to Cromwell's own meteoric rise as Henry's closest advisor.  Whatever Cromwell sets out to accomplish becomes a reality, even to Henry's break with the Pope and the formation of the Church of England.  Not much action in this book, but a great deal of fascinating discussion, including the lead-up to Thomas More's execution for treason when he refused to acknowledge Henry as head of the Church.  A distinctly different POV of the time and well worth reading, especially if you are interested in the political machinations of the Henry VIIIth reign.
5 Mantel is a genius.  Her narrative style is brilliant and unique.  I was completely taken by surprise at how easy it was to get sucked in.  And I stayed in.  It is not an easy read, but it is a worthy one.  Because it's such a unique style, it does take (for an American, anyway...) a bit of work to navigate who's who at times.  But this should not be off-putting because in the end it is well worth it.  I'm halfway through &#34;Bring up the Bodies,&#34; the second in the sequel and the story just gets better and better.  You know the story, basically, but not fully---and certainly not from Thomas Cromwell's point of view.  It is a treat to get inside his head.  And Mantel's Cromwell is decidedly different from what I recall in English history...but only because he is brought to life as a human being within the context of his childhood and family life beyond.  Read it!
5 absolutely wonderfully written novel of Cromwell from his perspective.  I couldnt put it down! I cant wait for the final installment!
5 Hillary Mantel packs an incredible amount of detail into this book, with rich descriptions of historical figures drawn through the mind of Thomas Cromwell. The events of the book flow in a stream of places, seasons, and meetings. I only put down the book when entering and leaving the commuter train, and picked up the thread as soon as I opened the book. Really an amazing read,; I recommend this book to any reader of historical fiction, particularly those with an interest in this era.
4 Fascinating historical novel shedding new light on Thomas Cromwell, Henry VIII and Tudor England. Beautifully written with deep character development. Good pace. Well constructed.
4 There is nothing more exciting than Tudor fiction. I love Anne Boleyn, I don't know how many times I can say that; I'll probably name my first daughter after her. In this book the all too familiar plot is given a different angle, since it comes from the perspective of Thomas Cromwell, the king's up and coming advisor after the fall of Cardinal Wolsey.I will admit it can be difficult to follow sometimes, since there are a lot of "he says" but when there are several men in the room, you don't know who is doing the speaking. So,  you may have to take it slow every now and then.An excellent read though, and you feel you are reading about the subject for the first time, since the author gives it a fresh, new perspective from Cromwell's point of view. I have had this book for awhile, but when I found out it was going to have a sequel, and that being specifically about Anne's downfall, I had to read and time it out just right. The new book is out so here I go to start that one.
4 Initially, I had a hard time getting into this book. Mantel uses a very distant, third-person perspective that makes it very difficult to know now and then whether the 'he thought', or 'he said', refers to Cromwell or someone else who is in the scene. But eventually I got used to it into it - and found it utterly fascinating. It definitely filled in some of my blank spots as far as British history goes (I had heard and read about "Cromwell" before, but only in Restoration England. I was not aware that his Great Uncle had been a just as driving - and decisive force - in Tudor England). Mantel really has a gift for making her charachters come alive and, perhaps even more important, sympathetic - in all their human strengths and frailties: from Cromwell to Henry the VIII and Anne Boleyn and other. I don't know if it all really happened EXACTLY that way (who does), but the way she presents it is reasonable, supported by solid research, and - above all - seriously entertaining! History with a spoonful of sugar that makes the medicine go down. Highly recommended!
3 I liked it, didn't love it.  Style wise this book leaves something to be desired.  I found Mantel's approach of using quotes sometimes and not others difficult at times to follow.  Additionally, it is not always clear who is speaking, as she uses pronouns too often.  I found I had to stop myself many times and re-read a section to realize the person speaking had changed.I love the story itself but the convulted prose and style bring it down.  I also found the number and volume of characters at times a bit to manage.  I had to reference a cheat sheet I made to keep everyone straight.I can typically read a book of this size in a couple of weeks providing I have some dedicated time.  Even with a good amount of holiday time, and 12 hours worth of airplane time, it took me about a month to finish.  A reader must commit to the time to get the most out of this book.
3 Ok, so I have to admit that I've only read the first 150 pages of this book before joining the chorus of reviews that bring attention to Ms Mantel's distinctive approach to punctuation and decidedly 21st century speech in what is otherwise an interesting novel. I have read marvelous reviews of this book, and truly love good historical fiction. I am even able to overlook minor lapses in proper grammar and punctuation, but Ms Mantel's haphazard use of quotation marks is very distracting to me to the degree that I may not be able to finish this book. I find myself constantly rereading paragraphs in order to discern who is actually speaking, which not only takes away from the novel's flow but, in all honesty, drives me crazy. Other reviewers have commented on the author's indiscriminate use of the pronoun "he", something that I have also noted.  Ms Mantel may find that this is an interesting writing style, but I find it incredibly annoying and, again, detrimental to the plot and frustrating for the reader. I am sure that Ms Mantel has excellent copyeditors as she is a very successful writer, which leads me to believe that this particular approach in Wolf Hall is intentional. But, as someone who is admittedly beyond particular about grammar and punctuation, this novel's peculiar approach to both is making this reader want to close the book for good.
5 Wolf Hall is the first in a trilogy of books that focuses on Thomas Cromwell. In this one we see him rise from an abused son of a brewer/blacksmith to one of Henry VIII's closest advisers. Cromwell is a very interesting man, who knows how precarious his position is. And he is prepared to go with the flow. As his mentor Cardinal Wolsey falls from grace Cromwell rises, without seeming disloyal or scheming. The events, so familiar to us from the many dramatizations of the topic, unfold with a different view than any we have seen before.If you are an Anglophile, you will love this well thought, meticulously researched, and exceptionally well written book. If you think Phillipa Gregory is the height of literature than this is not the book for you.
5 I don't typically read historical fiction, but after reading a news article on the upcoming BBC series based on the novel I wanted to check it out. I loved this book and read every moment of free time I had until complete. I am happy that I still have Bringing Up the Bodies to read as I didn't want it to be over. I never thought I would find Thomas Cromwell so intriguing! The book moves at a nice pace and kept my interest the entire time. I really enjoy her writing style and plan on checking out her other books. So, even if you prefer spy thrillers,mystery or suspense novels as I do, give this books a chance. It is definitely not a boring, dry history lesson! It was a fabulous change of pace from my normal genres.
4 Wolf Hall offered insight into the very heart of Cromwell.  The historical facts of his life were blended with a fictional dialogue that made Cromwell real and understandable
2 While I have a respectable undergraduate knowledge of this period and the characters in this real life drama, I found the author's narrative lacking in care for the reader who must decipher at every turn which character is speaking.  Much of the story is forwarded by dialogue without attribution or, as another reviewer noted, with references simply to first names or alternate names for the same person.A much more "reader friendly" rendering of this period is The Other Boleyn Girl by Phillipa Gregory (unless you really want to focus on Cromwell's role.)
5 Henry VIII's marriage to Anne Boleyn has been fictionalized countless times. This re-telling based on Thomas Cromwell's viewpoint is both jarring and wonderful. In this version, Cromwell is a complex but sympathetic character. Lowly born, he succeeds as the king's fixer by out-working and out-thinking everyone else. While calculating and worldly, he's also a family man who likes small dogs and takes in widows and orphans. Meanwhile, Thomas More is portrayed as a hair shirt wearing zealot with no qualms about turning the rack personally. More creates widows by burning husbands; he has a servant boy stripped and beaten while the household laughs. It's an interesting premise that turns the standard saintly-More version on its head.The dialogue is contemporary and spoken in a shorthand style. Some reviewers were frustrated by the use of pronouns: who's speaking now? Those not well-versed in Tudor history will be driven to distraction. If you hated the book, give it another chance after getting a handle on the history and who's who. Rochford aka George Boleyn, Norfolk aka Thomas Howard, and which "he" is speaking will no longer confound. The prep time will be rewarded - it's a great read.
3 Some books lend themselves better to e-format than others. Not Wolf Hall.Once it got into pronouns and subjects, many of whom had the same first names, it was frustrating to try to remember who was whom other than the obvious (Henry VIII & Anne Boleyn.) With a hardcover book, it is easy to flip back to the list of characters.As a novel- not find characterizations clearly drawn-and their self-indulgence, manipulation & morals are well documented elsewhere.
4 I enjoyed the perspective of the narrator, it leaves the reader with the impression Cromwell has been misrepresented throughout history.
1 Wolf Hall is artsy, literary, and contrived. The method of telling is confusing, compounded by the author's insistence of referring to her protagonist as 'he' in the middle of paragraphs where there are other characters to whom the pronoun would, under normal rules, refer.Her mastery of detail is excellent, but that seems to be all there is to the book--endless detail and lots and lots of internal monologue (philosophizing, going on and on about motivations) most of which is very tangential to whatever is happening in the story's present. There are unannounced flashbacks, side-steps, references to characters not introduced-- in short, the story weaves and ducks like a drunken prizefighter, but never connected with this reader.This is an excellent novel for those who abhor plot in any form.
5 Set in the time of Henry VIII of England, the book's title `Wolf Hall' is a little misleading. That was the name of the Seymour family's home, and they play only peripheral roles in this book, although ultimately the events will lead Henry there. This book is about Thomas Cromwell, set mainly during the time of Henry's fight to divorce his first wife, Katherine of Aragon, marry Anne Boleyn and get a male heir to the throne.Drunken, violent blacksmith's son made good, Cromwell ran away from his abuser at an early age and made his way to success via stints as a hired fighter in foreign armies, then learning the arts of being a merchant. He returned to England to work for Cardinal Wolsey, long King Henry's right hand man. Cromwell survives Wolsey's fall from grace and rises dizzyingly to the top, becoming Henry's top servant in short time.Normally painted one sided as a greedy, amoral man with no redeeming graces, Cromwell emerges in this book as a man who suffers, worries and celebrates the things all humans do. He loves his wife and children, cares deeply for the fates of the people who come to depend on him, likes cats, and can hold a grudge for his whole life. He is a protagonist that the reader can care about and relate to, something I did not expect given the image I had of him from history books.Mantel brings Tudor England to life vividly, not just the splendors of the court- which isn't really very splendid at all- but the dirt and poverty of the lower class and the day to day life of the middle class. This creates a balanced picture of the age that most historical novelists do not bother with. She also provides an alternate, and surprising, motive for many of Cromwell's actions beyond mere greed.Despite the great detail and depth of the book, it's not perfect. The author does not always make it clear who is speaking. Dialogue does not always have quotes bracketing it, and she frequently changes subject within a paragraph, starting the paragraph with one person speaking, then referring to `him' or `he' in the next line, but not referencing the speaker but Cromwell. Cromwell is simply `he' a lot of the time, and it's very confusing. Almost equally confusing is Mantel's alternate use of a characters name or his title, but there is a cast of characters in the front of the book to deal with that. Still, this is a marvelous, engaging book that lovers of the Tudor age should read.
5 This swirl of a novel is daring in so many ways. Hilary Mantel has created a stunning work of historical fiction about Henry VIII's counselor Thomas Cromwell. And she uses the present tense! Also, she uses words the way the Impressionists used paint. And then there are the startling reversals: Thomas More is shown as a religious bigot who sees nothing wrong in torturing heretics, and Anne Boleyn is portrayed as an ill-tempered schemer who's been pimped out by her scheming father. Henry VIII comes off as gregarious and not inclined to pay much attention to detail.In 604 pages, the author, after a quick look at Cromwell's youth, shows him as he elides from aide to Cardinal Wolsey to a high position at court, after the cardinal's fall. She ends the tale with the execution of Sir Thomas in 1535, just as the king is beginning to turn his attention to Jane Seymour, who will be his third wife.Wicked fun, and informative, too. Those who like iconoclastic historical novels (e.g., Gore Vidal's "Burr," or Josephine Tey's "The Daughter of Time") will lap this one up.Notes and asides: one of the "editorial reviews" Amazon posts asserts that the book contains a "distracting abundance of dizzying detail." Delete "distracting" from the quote and there you have it. The book is all about dizzying detail. Yeah the use of "he" is a bit confusing as first but hey! You'll get used to it.
5 I read Mantels Bringing Up the Bodies first and enjoyed it very much. Hillary Mantel is an exceptional and colorful writer.  Mantels fictional accounts of the characters are brilliant and fun. However she does included many serious and historical insights of that period which made the book even more interesting for me. I admit I am not a reader that enjoys books that focus only on historical events. This being said its a great read for all especially those who are not inclined like myself to dive happily into history books. Also reading Bringing Up the Bodies first made this book even more interesting for me. I was already armed with an understanding of this historical period. One does not need to read these books in order as Mantel is such an awesome writer. This is a great read for those of us who find history a bit dry. She is a brilliant writer and her character development in the fictional area makes these books a great read. i now have a greater appreciation of the history of King Henry the 8th and am sure its because she sucked me in with the characters interesting and at times naughty personalities. I think she may have had even more fun with the characters in Bringing Up the Bodies as Wolf Hall is not quite as loaded with the fun &#34;stuff&#34; as Bringing Up the Bodies.
1 After attempting to read this book and others that have been awarded the Booker award, I can just say that this award has absolutely no credibility with me anymore.
5 I seldom right reviews but being hooked on the Tudor dynasty and often enjoy fiction books written on the time period.  I loved this book....do not let the first chapter turn you off as if is a bit confusion, but that's serves the purpose of getting your attention and keeping it.  This is a must read for any fan of this time period....if you loved "The Other Boleyn Girl" and it's sequel then you will love this book!
1 I was planning on reading Bring up the bodies, and found out that this book was &#34;first&#34; So I decided to read it first. Im sorry, the writing style is disjointed, confusing and annoying. Example, Cromwell is talking to Queen Katherine, and Mary, and in the middle of it, is written that the Italian women wear fashions that are impossible to get them out of. WHAT? What was the context for that?t I have read alot about this time period and the people. Thomas Moore was religious zealot, and very learned. In this story, he comes off a weird-o. Ann is an ambivalent character and Henry falls flat. The relationship of Cromwell and Wolsey is never really explained. Cromwell leaves England as a young man, has adventures that get alluded to, but how did he hook up with Wolsey, and why were they so close?The writer keeps on bringing historical people in little paragraphs and references. It seems to just show she knows who they are. Most of the time, I cant tell who is talking to who, and sometimes you cant tell if Cromwell is thinking something or saying it. So I WILL NOT be going on to read Bring up the bodies.
3 Mantel can write, and she can flatter, and the best-selling status of this novel comes from her flattering of readers who 'have a bit of history' and who admire clever go-ahead characters.  Cromwell the protagonist is a cold clever man who is admired and feared by those around him, and we readers are encouraged to admire him.  Indeed, like some of Agatha Christie's novels about Miss Marple, Mantel frequently has the surrounding characters tell each other, and us, what a cunning clever ruthless chap Thomas Cromwell is.  The books is chock full of plausible and tasty historical "facts", but its heart is empty.  I did not want to finish it, but I did. I shall not read Mantel's sequel. Good writing is not sufficient on its own to merit best-seller status.
4 Hilary Mantel clearly has a passion for this period in English history. I liked the fact that she wrote from the perspective of Thomas Cromwell. However the book is not an easy read and I think it does require some background knowledge of that period
5 Hilary Mantel has deserved to win the Booker with this magnificent novel.  For someone interested in the history of Henry VIII and the ill fated Anne Boleyn, this is an absolute treat - a meticulously researched and written novel which portrays their era with colour and wit.  But of course the true star of the book is Thomas Cromwell, son of a violent blacksmith, and his meteoric rise to fame.The book commences with Cromwell's early life, receiving a vicious beating at the hands of his brutal father, and fleeing his family to find fame and fortune overseas.  This part of his life is not addressed in any detail, but it is this experience in France and Italy that made Cromwell the urbane man that he became, and the story really commences with his service to Cardinal Wolsey, forever destined to be the man who couldn't delivery what Henry really wanted - a divorce from Katherine and the opportunity to marry again.  It was Cromwell who delivered this and changed the face of the Western world forever.The magic in this novel is that it is quintisentially English, and extraordinarily effective in painting the landscape.  Anyone who knows England, even that modern country that exists today will recognise the characters and geography.  You can taste the food that is offered, smell the odours from the river and visualise the grey velvet that Cromwell wears.  It shows him as a human character, who had loved and lost not only his benefactor, but friends and family as well.  As someone who knew Cromwell from his stern Hans Holbein portait and other historical books, this portrayal has been a revelation - I have suddenly seen him as he was - a husband, father and son, as well as a brilliant and ambitious man who lived in extraordinary times.It is a thoroughly engrossing and entertaining novel and I cannot recommend this highly enough.
4 I had trouble with this book. The historical content was fascinating and well researched but the authors grammatical syntax was irritating I had to reread several passages in the early chapters to pin who was talking before I woke up to the authors strange method of 'he&#34;  being Cromwell talking but not always.
4 I decided to read this book because my husband bought it, couldn't get into it, and I hate to see money wasted.  It is a surprisingly engaging read. The reason I'm giving it 4 stars instead of 5 is because a book probably shouldn't require a primer to understand how to read it. I was forewarned by my husband (and other Amazon reviewers) about the various issues with the narrative voice, pronoun use, and present tense, so I was somewhat prepared for these idiosyncracies. Here are some helpful tips:1) If in doubt, "he" is Cromwell. It's almost like the author wanted to avoid the first person (I) voice in favor of an omnisciant one, but at the same time, didn't want to keep repeating "Cromwell says, Cromwell thinks, Cromwell asks, etc" 20 times on a page.2)Pay attention to the dates presented at the beginning of the chapters...this will keep you aware of the time line regardless of the tense.3) This is not the first book you should read about Tudor England: A knowledge of the period is probably necessary (although another dissapointed reader I know who has an advanced degree in English history also had problems with the narrative). I would suggest "The Autobiography of Henry VIII: With Notes by His Fool, Will Somers by Margaret George" as a primer. This book is also a fairly accurate historical fiction but is more accessable than Wolf Hall...a fast, fun read.4)Put a book mark into "Cast of Characters" and refer to it early and often... as the story unfolds, you will find yourself knowing who is who in context without additional help.Once you get into it, this is an intriguing book. Its insights into the period make it well worth the effort of occasionally having to re-read a paragraph.
5 I am eagerly awaiting the 3rd installment. I would not have believed I could have become a fan of Thomas Cromwell, but as he is created in these pages, I respect him, believe in him, and like to spend time with him.Mantel's POV, her graceful presentation of Cromwell's perspective on events, being almost inside and outside his head at the same time, is a wonder. Great work!
4 Part's of it are long and didactic. I don't know if I would have liked it so much if I hadn't just watched "The Tudors". But it makes a great follow up to that, for those that are really interested in the history and it helps to already have some idea about the major characters.
5 This book really makes historical figures come alive and adds insight to a well-known period of history. The style is extremely original and book lovers will appreciate how well-crafted this novel is. Hats off to Hilary Mantel.
4 Mantel is like Plaidy with a brain. Er, sorry, I'm not saying J isn't a through researcher. She's just Plain Jane. But I gobble it up anyway.The title of Wolf is brilliant. Never mentioned in the story, the culmination of events, a challenge to the reader. Do you know what is to come? Oops, better read up on Jean. Wow, now I feel smart. How satisfying. I'll tell all my friends. What a great pitch. Fans, just joking!Cromwell's POV - We've all had enough of Henry and Wolsey, and God forbid, Anne, it's about time we hear the case from someone else. How much truth, how much rich embroidery? Who cares? As I read it, I was superbly entertained and felt keenly intelligent. What a successful recipe.There was the Great TV Massacre upon the Tudors, but thank God Wolf put it right. It put the right clothes on the right people and placed them back in the right places. Henry is now fat and Wolsey is now ugly again. Thank you, Ms Mantel.
1 If you are interested in Henry VIII era try Phillipa Gregory novels.  They are very well done and interesting.  Forget this one or read just a few pages...that should decide you NOT to try to read this further.  Strangely written.  The whole novel is I Cromwell etc etc etc.  I think we could have figured out that it was supposed to be Cromwell observing things.  Love historical novels..hated this one.
5 Amazing detail and powerful characterization makes this hefty novel a real page turner.  This is Henry VIII's England has never before portrayed!
2 I've read several books about the Tudor period, both fiction and non-fiction.  I was therefore looking forward to reading Wolf Hall, especially after it won the 2009 Booker Prize.  I was disappointed but forced myself to slog through the 532 pages hoping it would get better.  It didn't.  And in spite of an extensive list of characters in the foreword, it was often impossible to tell who was speaking and who the characters were.  This was so annoying that after a while I stopped trying to figure it out and just read the story as it was written.  Yes, the book gave me some insight about Thomas Cromwell and the role he played as advisor to Henry VIII.  But I read a book for much more than just the story, which, in this case, I already knew.  I was hoping for something more, especially after the glowing reviews this book received.The good part about the book was its richness of period detail.  I felt I was right there in King Henry's court and also in the towns.  I might not have been able to follow the details of the confusing narrative, but I did get a sense of occasional social mobility.  Thomas Cromwell was a commoner, the son of a brutal blacksmith.  And yet he was able to rise to the role of adviser to the king.  When the book ended, he was still in his glory years.  However, I'm acquainted with what happened to him later and it's not pretty.The writer also spent a lot of time in describing the punishments and tortures of the times in excruciating detail.  I found myself wincing as I read of burnings and decapitations and other grizzly ways of inflicting pain and suffering on those who displeased the King.Wolf Hall is so successful that I am assuming the author might just write a sequel which would include the downfall of Anne Boleyn and Henry's numerous other wives.  If she does, I won't read it.  I just can't stand her writing style.
5 Ever since the play and film, A Man for All Seasons, debuted in the 1960's, Thomas More has been regarded as a paragon of integrity, with Thomas Cromwell relegated to the role of unscrupulous manipulator. Vanora Bennett's 2007 novel Portrait of an Unknown Woman suggests that More had a less  heroic side. Now with Wolf Hall, Hilary Mantel has turned the paradigm on its ear. Her Thomas More is a heretic-torturing fanatic, one who is arrogant, posturing, and  heartless. Her Thomas Cromwell, for the first time in popular fiction, emerges as a fully developed individual with intelligence, compassion, and humanity. He is a commoner who has risen to the great heights by means of his own efforts, an ordinary man who is not intimidated by aristocratic disdain.Narrated in present tense and incorporating flashbacks, Wolf Hall provides readers with a seat at Cromwell's shoulder as he assesses the tenor of the times and decides that England must  move in an entirely new direction if it is not to be left out of modern Europe. The Church has had its day, and no amount of heretic burning will change that fact.  Cromwell builds a relationship with Henry VIII that is based entirely on practicality. It is not so much that Cromwell is corrupt or treacherous (he is not), but that he knows about the inner workings of both business and government, and about the inner desires of those at the top and those who are trying to get there.Mantel's ability to breathe life into 16th century England and a story that has become hackneyed with retelling is prodigious. There is no melodrama here, though there's plenty of action. Her prose is spare but evocative ("The moon, as if disgraced, trails rags of black cloud.") and her characters, no matter what their personal foibles, are immensely human.Hilary Mantel is an author I wish I'd discovered earlier, but that's easily remedied. Wolf Hall is entirely deserving of the Man Booker Prize, and in my estimation, should be on the short list for best novel of the year.
5 A fascinating historical page turner. Mantel truly emerses the reader into the time period of Henry VIII. I wholeheartedly recommend this.
3 I am no historian, but I've been reading historical novels (about 40 so far) for a long time, with a particular focus on Henry VIII. I opened this book very excited to read about Cromwell from his own point of view -- and was further excited by the fact this book had won a book prize.I haven't finished the book yet, and I'm not sure I can. That has NEVER happened -- even with some really fluffy historical fiction that I've read. As previous reviewers have stated, I am having a terrible time understanding who is talking. I've begun to learn every time Mantel says "He" she must be referring to Cromwell. I have had to re-read paragraphs time and again to try to get a grasp of who was talking. It's to the point where I give up trying to figure out who is talking and just pretend I know what's going on.In addition to this, the book starts out in 1500 with an interesting look into Cromwell's childhood. Then, WHAM, we're in 1527 and the guy is 40 years old. What? Perhaps there isn't a lot out there about Cromwell's early years, but then just leave the first part out entirely. A small chapter on Cromwell's father beating him doesn't add to the story if it doesn't appear to apply later.I am pretty disappointed. I was excited for this novel, and it's really a disorganized mess.
5 I have only just discovered that Wolf Hall is the first part of a trilogy, but then once again I am late getting to read a novel, that really deserved my attention before now. It really is a case of so many books and so little time, I just have too many interests to keep on top of all the reading I would love to do. Anyway I finally got round to reading Wolf Hall on the recommendation of my daughter and the exciting fact that the publishers have sent me a copy of the second part Bring Up the Bodies. Keen to read it soon I obviously needed to get to read Wolf Hall first.Historical novels are a genre I have always enjoyed but a few years ago I seemed to go off them and tended to steer myself away from the genre. Then thanks to this blog I found myself receiving invitations to review historical novels and reluctantly at first I decided to give the genre a chance again, because I pride myself in having eclectic tastes! It was the right decision as now I am enjoying a whole new generation of great historical novel writers, as you will have noticed if you are a regular reader of my reviews.A period in history that has been written about many times before by the popular historical fiction novelists, but to my knowledge not from the viewpoint of Thomas Cromwell before now. Somehow Hilary Mantel turns a character I had always seen as a villian into a protagonist of this epic novel that I actually cared about, certainly as a family man! His household is seen as a happy place in complete contrast to the court of Henry Tudor. I did find the story confusing at first as it took me awhile to get the other characters with the name Thomas and the constant reference to he straight in my mind. Once I got into the rhythm of Hilary Mantels brilliantly told tale I found it engrossing. Her richly descriptive style brings every aspect of the period to life with intrigue and wit.Set in the reign of Henry VIII England is on the brink of disaster, as if Henry dies without a male heir civil war is likely to break out. Henry wants to escape his twenty year marriage to Katherine of Aragon and replace her with Anne Boleyn. It is during this period that the court sees the rise of Thomas Cromwell from his lowly birth to become the right hand man to the King in replacement of Cardinal Wolsey as he and Thomas More are both doomed. As surely as their mistakes lead to their death, Cromwell finds that success brings him seemingly unlimited power. As the protagonist of this novel, Thomas Cromwell, the blacksmiths son that grew up to become powerful at court, a cruel and ruthless man according to history, is seen in a different light. Maybe he did have a more likeable side as when he was with family and friends he comes across as a kind man. Henry VIII needs a male heir and it becomes Cromwell's job to clear the path of all obstacles, of which there are many, that are preventing him from doing so. If you learnt the rhyme (divorced, beheaded, died, divorced, beheaded, survived ),about Henry's wives as I did at school you will know the eventual outcome; as the novel ends there are already signs that the King is tiring of Anne Boleyn.Although this is an historical novel the story revolves around human nature so readers that may normally prefer modern day fiction, will find plenty to relate to, just with characters you first heard of in history lessons at school. Personally I am really looking forward to reading the sequel now.
4 Briliiantly written.  Any confusion to be blamed on my shabby knowledge of the history.  Will definitely read the sequel, but sneak in a synopsis of that period!
4 There has been a lot said here that doesn't need repeating, so I will just respond and build on a few main points about Wolf Hall that have already been put down.Wolf Hall may be a long book, for current times, as far as # of pages (War and Peace was 1450 pp.), but I found that it raced by and I felt sad that it would end so soon.  Also, in the HB edition the print is large and there's a lot of surrounding space, so it isn't as long as we might think.As I said, it did race by; it was for me a very enjoyable book.  In response to others' complaints about the confusing use of "he," I think this was Mantel's aesthetic choice: perhaps to engage the reader in a certain sort of way--earning their own entry into the meaning--and also to create and maintain a kind of poetic purity in the language.  And I think she succeeded.  I found it was like learning to swim or ride a bike.  Once you'd conquered the certainty that the "he" was usually Cromwell, you could effortlessly determine who was speaking and the words flowed (and the unique style was established).  I also enjoyed the use of the present tense as it invigorated the text with a sense of immediacy that broke from the fusty style of the "historical novel.".While I greatly enjoyed the quality of the continuous humor in the thoughts of Cromwell and his dialogue with so many other characters, I also thought it was self-indulgent on Mantel's part, diminishing the credibility and therefore artistry of the work.  It was always the same sort of humor but coming from extremely different and disparate characters.  It felt just so unlikely that so many people, at that time, in those situations, would share that kind of humor (undoubtedly Hilary Mantel's sort of  humor).  I think it is paramount in good fiction that the author maintains the suspension of disbelief throughout the work and this is impossible if the reader is always aware of humor coming from improbable sources and not presented as an organic and unique character trait.  At times it went on so long, these humorous exchanges between Cromwell and so many of his associates--all of his family, servants, colleagues, Holbein, random passersby, etc. (it seems only Henry, Anne and More were exempt)-- that the book became comedic.In that regard, another repeated anomaly broke the credibility for me.  (I don't think we need to believe everything, just that we shouldn't be disturbed by unbelievable and therefore dissonant elements--and these may be only personal issues I had with the book.)  My other issue was the presentation of Cromwell's nature or character.  I enjoyed the positive portrayal--we want to like our protagonist--but at the same time we do know that he was manipulative, self-serving, avaricious, obsessively ambitious and cruel and cold in his choices to facilitate the many murders (executions) of many humane people committed throughout his career.  These were presented, rather ingeniously, in an almost sympathetic light, which is just too much in conflict with the history we know of the bleak, harsh, cruel times in which they lived . (It is said approximately 70,000 people were executed during Henry VIII's reign.)  Again, I'm not arguing with Wolf's choice to make Cromwell a sympathetic character--this is, after all, fiction--but that it so conflicts with what we know, or think we know,  about him that it disrupts continuity, makes the reader stop and ponder it, in a book that could otherwise flow.  (That is, for this particular reader.)In spite of these quibbles, Wolf Hall was a joy to read.
5 Wolf Hall is fantastic -- Characters historical and otherwise are well conceived and not pinned to the page.  I especially loved the way Hilary gets into Cromwell's head and expresses his inner life -- past, present, and plans for the future, for his King, his nation, and his family.  The moments he spends with Anne Boleyn are exquisite.So, yes!  Read this book.  Do not be daunted by the size, or complexity.  It is fantastic company.
5 I just adore this series of novels by Hilary Mantel.  I don't read a lot of historical fiction these days, but even if you don't like that genre, you will probably really enjoy this novel.
5 The author brings you completely into the story and gives a different perspective of the characters involved.  It's one of those books that you want to see what happens next but don't want it to finish!  Definitely recommend it.
5 I love historical novels and this one brings the characters to life with all their likeable and distasteful qualities. You do need to refer back to the list of characters frequently but the author has arranged them pretty much in order so they are easy to find. For this reason, I would buy the book and not the Kindle version.If you just like a quick read, this is not for you, but its one of those books I look forward to reading every day.
5 You&#8217;ll love this book if you enjoyed: Kleopatra, Pharaoh, The Palace of Heavenly Pleasure, Birds Without WingsI cannot rave enough about Wolf Hall. It is the most perfectly, elegantly, and beautifully crafted story I have read in a very long time.It&#8217;s a monster of a book, running at about 650 pages (my copy), but it is a very quick and thoroughly enjoyable read. I got through it in under a week, and I had to force myself to put it down during that time in order to deal with, you know, life. If I could have, I would have read it straight through.As anyone who&#8217;s read the synopsis will know, Wolf Hall deals with the rise and rise of Thomas Cromwell in the court of Henry VIII. There is backstory &#8211; about Cromwell&#8217;s childhood, escape to Europe, education under Cardinal Wolsey, but the bulk of the story takes place around and in relation to the scandals coming out of the king&#8217;s court, namely concerning the dissolving of his marriage to Katherine, his separation from Rome, and his union with Anne Boleyn. We are with Cromwell as he rises among the king&#8217;s councillors until he&#8217;s pretty much Henry&#8217;s right-hand man.The plot is closely-focused on this scandal in the court, but Mantel draws the reader back in time, waxing on the history of how England came to that point. She draws on mythology, religion, folklore, astrology, and all sorts of other disciplines to corroborate her points, weaving a fascinating web for the reader to tease meaning and inferences from.As you can imagine, the story is a saga with a cast of thousands. The list of characters at the front of the book spans 5 pages, which seems daunting, but Mantel is such a deft hand at characterization that you soon become intimately familiar with all the characters and no longer have trouble telling the Thomases apart (there are a lot of Thomases.)That brings me to Mantel&#8217;s style. I am envious of this woman&#8217;s style. The prose in this book is so sure, the narrator so confident, that the reader is swept along on a comfortable wave of narrative authority. It is an odd style, with indirect dialogue infused with direct dialogue, all of which is -at times &#8211; sprinkled with Cromwell&#8217;s thoughts and reflections. If you submit to the style rather than fight against it with your notion of how you think it should have been written, then there shouldn&#8217;t be an issue. Although I would say Mantel demands a fairly sophisticated reader to adapt and follow along with the story.Considering this is an historical fiction, intuition (or at least my intuition) would have the narrative be in past tense, but Wolf Hall is entirely in present tense. It&#8217;s told in third-person, but very close in on Thomas Cromwell. I don&#8217;t believe we are ever privy to the thoughts and sentiments of other characters outside of the filter of Cromwell&#8217;s thoughts. There are meditative passages where the narrator seems to slip into second for a moment, but you imagine the &#8216;you&#8217; as being other people in the story or perhaps a diary Cromwell is writing rather than the reader himself. It is a rather bizarre device, and I&#8217;m amazed she could sustain it as well as she did for such a lengthy tale.She has beautiful, descriptive prose, coming up with images that feel unique and fresh: &#8220;Her finger reaches out, tentative, to push the petals below the water, so each of them becomes a vessel shipping water, a cup, a perfumed grail.&#8221;But the real treasure in this book has to be the dialogue. It sparks and crackles and leaps off the page. It is insightful, painfully honest, laugh-out-loud funny, and downright witty. There is not a wasted bit of dialogue to be found and I found myself reading scenes over again just to enjoy the conversations. Anyone who comes up with the phrase: &#8220;By the thrice-beshitten shroud of Lazarus!&#8221; is A-ok in my book.Without spoiling the story (which isn&#8217;t really possible since it&#8217;s historical) the book ends on a perfect note. It satisfies your experience of Wolf Hall and amps you up for Bring Up The Bodies, which I am immediately turning to.I will go on a limb and say, your life is a poorer one if you haven&#8217;t read this book. Read it. Read it now!
1 This book was so boring I couldn't get through more than a few chapters.  My bookclub was reading it and out of 6 people, not one finished it.  They hated his use of pronouns.  Couldn't figure out who the hell he was talking about from one minute to the next.
2 As much as I wanted to love this book, I could not get beyond the bizarre writing style of the author.  Thomas Cromwell is always referred to by a pronoun, and this makes all dialogue between male characters virtually impossible to follow without reading the passages repeatedly.  At one point there are 4 male characters having a conversation, and I had to read the section seven times before I could make any sense of what was happening.  Every time the narrative would start to move along, the dialogue problem would return and slow the story back down.  The book ended up being very difficult to follow and it felt very choppy for absolutely no reason other than the author's refusal to refer to the main character by name!My reaction when I finally finished the book was to thank heaven that it was over, and there's no way that can be considered a ringing endorsement.I will not be picking up the sequel when it appears.
3 Well researched story about Thomas Cromwell who counseled Henry VIII while he divorced Katherine of Aragon then married Anne Boelyn. It is not a quick or easy read. Interesting, but at times confusing since there are so many characters - many named Thomas. I was very glad Ms. Mantel included information at the front of the book (including a family tree) which I could refer to when necessary.
2 It started out a bit interesting then jumps to the main character being older in an area and position that has had zero transition.  I know author's like to do flash backs or flash forward but this book, I just couldn't keep an interest in because I had not really had time to invest any real interest in the characters.  This book was recommended and therefore maybe it was just me so please read it and maybe it will be different for you.
2 This is the perfect book to read at bedtime because it is so boring and hard to follow it will put you to sleep. The narrative style of this book is hard to follow and not very engaging.
5 Fantastically researched, Wolf Hall brings a refreshing new perspective to an era in English politics that tends to focus upon the royals themselves (let's face it, the market is saturated with Tudor soap opera!  There are plenty of touching insights into 'real' life at the time, courtesy of Cromwell's humble background.It's not over-written -- in fact, Mantell's brief description of the gargoyles and grotesques overlooking the streets of London had me rather wishing she sprinkled in a little more descriptive prose.  But the focus here is character, and her talent for making even as dislikeable a man as Thomas More (very slightly) sympathetic with her rounded insights is what sets this book apart for me.
5 For folks who have read a lot about Henry and his many, no so merry, wives, it's nice to read a truly well researched book that looks at Henry's time through the lens of a character not quite so well known.  And since I've always thought Thomas Moore a twit (I hate martyrs) I loved this book's characterization of him.  It might not be fair (I've no way of knowing) but I loved it.  I really enjoyed the character of Cromwell.  The author makes him a very modern man- but I'm not averse to that.  The book is beautifully written, and I couldn't put it down.  I read it in two days, which was very gluttonous of me, but it was fun, and I'd do it again.
4 It takes some getting used to the author's style, so the characters can get muddled at times.  But this is a fascinating portrait of Cromwell and other major players in the drama surrounding Henry VIII. While this is clearly the author's fictionalized interpretation of the principal characters, her rendering of the era is hauntingly real.  A great read!
5 In her latest novel, Mantel has captured the spirit of the rebellion against the Church and a pope who will not bow to pressure and annul the marriage of Henry VII and Katherine of Aragon. It is only by this means that Henry can legally wed Anne Boleyn, the woman in whom he has invested his hopes of son and heir. Once enjoined, the battled is waged for years, one of the most significant players the base-born Thomas Cromwell, a lawyer of great talent, with the wit to appreciate the nature of this clash of wills. Henry will have his way: it is only a matter of when and at what cost. As the battle lines are drawn, Cromwell provides the perspective of a self-made man, trained in politics through his years in service to Thomas Wolsey, Archbishop of York. Although Wolsey will eventually fall before the weight of Henry's demands, Cromwell proves an avid student in the matter of politics and power, the dangers of ambition. He is quietly outraged by the cruelty of those who execute the details of Wolsey's fall from grace. A master of words and reason, Cromwell earns his reputation honestly, in thrall to no belief save the constructs of the law.The cast of characters and political events are impressive, from the petulant Henry to the scheming Boleyn's, courtiers vying for favor in Henry's court, the stubborn and righteous nature of Thomas More, pursuer of heretics, the never-ending machinations on behalf of Katherine of Aragon's interests. Certainly the interpretation of God's will plays a major part in men's arguments regarding the resolution of Henry's "Great Matter". While the king impatiently waits for word from Rome, More lays siege to the king's arguments, counting all of Christendom and the saints on his side. Meanwhile, Cromwell guides the affairs of a king he has grown to love, befriending the clever Anne Boleyn, who burns with the desire to be Henry's queen. While reason and logic prevail- thanks to Cromwell's efforts- the Church endures, time the pope's greatest weapon.Mantel's portrayal of Thomas Cromwell is nothing short of brilliant, his worldview shaped by experience and reason, balancing the strengths and limitations of friend and foe, whether Anne Boleyn, lifelong adversary Bishop Gardiner, the combative prelate Thomas More, who tortures both heretics and himself, relishing pain for God's sake, even the bitter Jane Rochford, jealous wife of Anne's brother, George, "lonely and breeding a savage heart". Cromwell is intimate with power, knowledgeable about finance, commerce and governance, feared and hated by many, but loved by those he has brought into his home. Cromwell's fate is yet unknown at the end of this superb novel, which culminates with the beheading of Thomas More. This tumultuous period of king vs. church is viewed through the eyes of a base-born man, the history of England forever changed by a willful Tudor king's determination to wrest his future from the domination of the Vatican. Luan Gaines/2010.
2 This book was highly recommended in the Sydney Morning Herald but I have found it hard to get interested in it. Maybe when I have nothing else to read will I pick it up again and try for a second go.
5 Since there are so many reviews that do so I am not going to go over the plot.  First, let me say that I love English history, particularly the history of the Tudors, so I was inclined to like the book.  Despite the fact that I found Hillary Mantel's use of the pronoun "he" confusing at times, and I frequently had to stop and figure out who was speaking to whom, I found that I loved Wolf Hall.  The main reason for this is the characterization of Thomas Cromwell.  Mantel's writing brings him to life.  Mantel's Cromwell is admirable, intelligent, good humored; a great hero.  I found myself thinking about the book when I wasn't reading it and now I want to get the next book to "keep up" with Cromwell.Wolf Hall is well worth the effort to overcome the confusion that is a result of Mantel's writing style.  It's a great portrait of a man and a time.
3 I started this book because I like all things to do with history and in particular anything up to and including ELizabeth I.  I admit, at the beginning I struggled and several times almost gave up.  Why?  The reasons stated in many of the reviews...  the present tense, the use of multiple names in a complex cast of characters, the dialog alternating between using quotes and not (are they thinking or speaking?) and finally - the worst annoyance - "he/him/his" -- who?????The dry wit and pithy delivery of much of the dialog is captivating.  At those moments the characters come to life in a way I have rarely seen before for Anne Boleyn, Cromwell, More or Cranmer (usually highly stereotyped characters).  Its a real shame that the parts of the book that are so excellent are damaged by the annoyances.OK that said - I am still reading it.  I read it on my Kindle...  at around 35% I stopped thinking "I am going to give up on this".  By 45%, I am looking forward to picking it up.  As stated by another reviewer the annoyances do seem to stop mattering (although they are still there) and for me that was about 1/3 of the way through.  Granted, that is a LOT of reading in such a large book.I will update my rating when I am finished.  At this point I would make it 3.5 if I could and unless things change I don't see it going down. It may end up going up to 4 stars.  Its worth sticking with it...  but I will say I wonder why the author flawed this otherwise terrific story with some peculiar prose choices.
5 This is a wonderfully written book about the time period between Henry VIII's rejection of Katherine of Aragon and his love affair with Anne Boleyn. The book is very understated and written with the detached view of Thomas Cromwell who watched Cardinal Woolsey fail in his attempt to void the marriage and die and worked in in helping Henry in his goal. Cromwell knows enough to keep the Boleyns at a distance but still supports Anne. When Henry is in a fit because Spain and Portugal are making tons of money off the Americas, Cromwell suggests the monasteries be looted for their wealth. I've read many Tudor novels but this book is the best written in my experience. A superlative book!
4 If you are interested in and somewhat knowledgeable about Henry VIII, you will like this book. The period greatly interests me. Even so, it is not a page turner and you have to concentrate.  Thomas Cromwell is a sympathetic character in this book as he is not in A Man For All Seasons. (the movie).  The difference in perspective between the two is fascinating.
5 Henry VIII? Anne Boleyn? 500-plus pages? If Mantel hadn't won the 2009 Booker Prize for this I would never have read it. And would have missed out big-time.Mantel approaches this well-traveled road from a fresh viewpoint: that of the tolerant, brilliant, and witty Thomas Cromwell.A blacksmith's son who became Henry's chief adviser and presided over Britain's break with the Catholic Church, Cromwell was disparaged and disliked in his lifetime and has often been portrayed as cold, calculating and vicious. Mantel's Cromwell is exactly the opposite - and utterly convincing.The story opens in 1500 when Cromwell is 15 or thereabouts (he's not sure of his birthdate). Routinely beaten by his alcoholic father, Cromwell runs away, to seek his fortune on the continent. We next see him 27 years later, as Cardinal Wolsey's right-hand man.Cromwell arrives at Wolsey's on a wet April evening after two weeks of traveling on the cardinal's business. "He's been to his clerks at Gray's Inn and borrowed a change of linen. He's been east to the city, to hear what ships have come in and to check the whereabouts of an off-the-books consignment he is expecting. But he hasn't been home yet."The cardinal's secretary, Stephen Gardiner, remarks that he is late and Cromwell explains there was traffic on the river. Gardiner responds:" `I'm surprised you didn't take an oar yourself. You must have done some river work, when you were a boy.'"Stephen sings always on one note. Your reprobate father. Your low birth...."Master Stephen resents everything about his own situation. He resents that he's the king's unacknowledged cousin. He resents that he was put into the church, though the church has done well by him. He resents the fact that someone else has late-night talks with the cardinal....he resents his knowledge that if they met on a dark night, Master Thos. Cromwell would be the one who walked away dusting off his hands and smiling."In a few paragraphs we see how Cromwell's background, travels, ambition and intellect have made him a man of many talents. Well versed in languages, law, banking and trade, he's a diplomat with a rapier tongue. That is, he never gets angry and thinks before he speaks, but is capable of giving as good as he gets."He knows new poetry, and can say it in Italian. He works all hours, first up and last to bed. He makes money and he spends it. He will take a bet on anything."His formative experiences emerge in brief flashbacks throughout the story, just enough to give his presence heft and shadow.The story's arc begins just before Wolsey's downfall over the king's determination to free himself of his first marriage and concludes after the downfall and execution of Sir Thomas More, who is not portrayed as the saintly martyr from "A Man for All Seasons."Cromwell works feverishly on Wolsey's behalf, and gradually, almost imperceptibly, fills the Wolsey-sized hole at Henry's side. With sharp dialogue, concise descriptions and pointed historical allusions, Mantel not only illuminates the era's religious revolutionary zeal and Henry's utilization of it in pursuit of the male heir he needed to assure the succession, she also makes it immediate, even suspenseful.Mantel shows Cromwell a contented and involved family man, despite his long hours. We are ever aware that life is precarious in this world and this is driven home when, escaping one year's plague season, his wife and two daughters succumb in the next. Cromwell never really recovers. Still, over the years his household grows as he takes in stray relatives, prot&eacute;g&eacute;s and promising servants and indulges his passion for building.Mantel skillfully portrays his rise - his use of diplomacy and his own protestant sympathies to give Henry the freedom and money he wants - as the tumultuous life of the court unfolds in scandal and self-interest. Unlike the aristocracy to whom ordinary people are almost an alien species, Cromwell remains aware of the rhythm of common lives and ambitious for the country's practical needs - roads, better nutrition, even maps.Meanwhile, unmentioned, is the knowledge that as Henry's new friends rise, his old friends fall - often into their graves. Cromwell tries his best to save More, portrayed as a zealot who wears a hair shirt, enjoys putting heretics to the rack, and treats his wife with utter contempt."In More's great hall, the conversation is exclusively in Latin, though More's wife, Alice, is their hostess and does not have a word of it."Mantel's prose is clean and straightforward; she evokes the era without wielding archaic forms. Her research never protrudes, but the details paint pictures in the mind's eye. Dialogue drives much of the narrative, as words are meat and bread to Cromwell.Summoned one day to the king's presence:"His face is like thunder. `Cromwell, have I not been a good lord to you?'He begins to talk...gracious, and more than gracious...own sad unworthiness...if fallen short in any particular begs most gracious pardon...He can do this all day. He learned it from Wolsey."Another time, he advises his adoptive son on a match:"When have I, when have I ever forced anyone to do anything, he starts to say: but Richard cuts in, `No, you don't, I agree, it's just that you are practiced at persuading, and sometimes it's quite difficult, sir, to distinguish being persuaded by you from being knocked down in the street and stamped on.' "Cromwell, of course, persists in his argument.Mantel intends a sequel, though so far it is only a title and a box of notes, she has said. Readers who were sorry to see this beguiling, dense, colorful and often funny novel end, will look forward to it.
4 Yes its a difficult read with so many Thomases - Why oh why are all the major players called Thomas!!. My advice is to start writing down the names of the major players, their Royal titles and &#34;nick names&#34; so that you can refer to that often and not get too confused. eg Thomas Boleyn, Lord Wiltshire, &#34;monseigneur&#34;.A fascinating insight into the sexual and political intrigue of the Tudor court. The story of Thomas Cromwells life is just so interesting, with his rise to prominence through his intelligence, contacts and diplomatic skills. But he was always an outsider.
5 Hilary Mantel's imaginative retelling of the life of Thomas Cromwell is a joy to read. Her language is poetic, earthy and most of all, utterly believable. We don't know whether Cromwell was really like this - but he ought to have been.God I wish I could write like this.
3 I thought this book had moments where it really flowed and was very good, but it FELT long to read at times.  I struggled to finish it.  I think Mantell is a good stylist but not such a great storyteller. She's kind of the opposite of Phillippa Gregory.  As another reviewer noted, I have respect for the book, but not affection.  For the most part it did not engage me emotionally (no spoilers but there was a section that made me teary-eyed, but most of the time I didn't feel much of anything for the characters).  I also had a problem with the characters' names being confusing.  I'm not sorry I read it, but I don't know if I would seek out other books by this author.
5 There are several significant points about this book which need to be noticed:  it is ideal for a screen play, written very much as dialogue without prompts  and with a unique  grammatical style.  It is the beauty of the descriptions that makes it very special, however, in that Tudor England is very, very alive through its homes, food, clothing and day to day life in general.  You actually feel you are in the room and have to turn this way or that to look at each speaker and these speakers are worthy of our attention - Henry VIII, Anne, Katherine of Aragon, Cardinal Wolsey and the central character as painted by Holbein, Thomas Cromwell.  But this is not just a companion to &#34;Girl with a Pearl Earring&#34; in that it goes into every aspect of Tudor life and must have entailed an incredible amount of research and preparation, review and correction.  Hilary Mantel can write and she writes well.  I have read many books on this period but this is the one that really &#34;reads&#34; the atmosphere, weather, the English landscape and the political intriques of the Court, the disagreements with the Pope and the rest of Europe, plus the individuals, almost 3D characters, who make the book a winner.
4 Although it was a bit slow at times, overall this rendition of the rise and fall of Anne Boleyn told from the perspective of Cromwell is very interesting.
5 Great writing, impeccable historical research, drama, sex, court intrigue, human frailty, human glory.This is such a great telling of the old Henry the VII, Anne Boleyn and Katherine of Aragon story that I think it's actually the best telling of the story I've ever seen. I'm a fan of the whole Henry VII saga and this is the best rendering of the initial kerfluffalog I've ever read. It's told from Cromwell's perspective. Who's Cromwell? you might be thinking. He was a real jerk in most of the versions of the story you'll read (and see) but here he is a human and is quite likable. He's not a bad guy and he's very, very smart. I wound up really liking and admiring him. Hearing things from his side gives you new perspective and also a window to the every-day life of the time. Fascinating.Thank you, Hilary Mantel.Marcianne Waters
5 Was delighted by the excellence of the writing.  With the small day to day details Mantel includes, it's easy to participate in life in the 1500s.  Have seen other representations of Cromwell and the Cardinal.  This is the best.
5 I loved this book.  Learned so much about early English history.  Fun to learn it in a fiction based on history book.  New empathy for how people lived in 1500's.  Long but moves fast on a Kindle!
5 I was not sure that there could be any new novels worth reading about the Tudor period relating to Henry VIII. I was wrong about this, and happily so. This book is about Thomas Cromwell. Thomas Cromwell is an interesting and complicated man. He had humble beginnings. It was an amazing situation he found himself in with the King of England because of his background. It was unheard of in those days to have that much influence and power. That is why he had many more enemies than the usual man.The book gives a different perspective about the Henry VIII period. The book was well researched. The book is detailed, full of many many interesting facts. The book is entertaining. A marvelous book for lovers of history and the Tudor period.
4 Wolf Hall, (though &#34;Wolf Hall&#34; seems to be more appropriate as the title for the second book in the series) was a good read...but the lack of clarified antecedents for the frequent &#34;he&#34; speakers made the reading very challengingly disruptive by forcing me to back up or flip forward so many times just to be sure which of the characters in the scene was actually speaking. Halfway through the book, I finally caught on that most of the time &#34;he&#34; was Thomas Cromwell, from whose viewpoint the narration was told,...but not always. This seemed to be the reason that some of our discussion group members did not finish reading the book.However, that said, I really liked the descriptive, and sometimes symbolic, detail given to both setting and character, and I liked the propensity of the author to add magical touches to the dreams, fevered state of sudden hallucinations of Cromwell. In this manner, the author established and kept in the foreground a more positive insight to Cromwell than I have ever learned.On the other hand, her portrayal of Thomas More seemed more harsh emphasizing the defects of Thomas More's&#8211;not that More did not have any as all saints are repentant sinners (except for the mother of Christ if you are a Catholic and believe in the Immaculate conception). Though More was known for his wit and banter that Alice, his second wife, did not always seem to understand or appreciate, the rude way in which the author presents his insult to his wife at the dinner table seemed very inappropriate when one considers his life of marital faithfulness and deprivation of bodily comfort as well as his love of family that he sacrificed when he opposed the king on the grounds that the king had no legal right to usurp the primal papacy of the church.That the Church would have been better off had it listened to the call for reform before the Protestant Revolution occurred seems obvious to religious observers today, but that conclusion can be unproductive hindsight if it does nothing to prevent the martyrdom and stigma attached to historic figures who were attuned and influenced by the cultures of the past from reoccurring with the heroes and villains of today.Though I hope that the next two books in the trilogy are an easier read, this first in the series was a provocative read....!
2 Chapter one opened with violence (and yes, it immediately appealed to my bloodthirsty side), but that's pretty much it. I didn't mind, for I was not expecting action scenes in Wolf Hall. But as the parts dragged on, it stayed flat for me for the rest of the novel. How laborious it was to finish this! Such an accomplishment-slash-disappointment rolled into one.Frustration surfaced when Hilary Mantel's writing confused the hell out of me. It's always started with a he, and given that there are many Thomases in this book, it was all so confusing. Man, the rereading I had to do (in order to secure my understanding where I'm at with the story) was not fun.Thomas Cromwell is no hero, I get that. To each his own, knowing how Henry VIII can quickly change his mind to those who surrounds him, so Cromwell made sure he did everything to secure his household, and everyone in it. But when he started to lose his connection with his family (he went into arranging marriages for his sons as a political strategy, with no thought of how they would feel about it), I resented him until the end.Let credit make its due to Hilary Mantel, as she did make my emotions rise - hatred for Anne Boleyn (and her family), disgust over Henry (and how he treats women), and disappointment for Cromwell. But that's all I am giving Wolf Hall.The idea that Thomas More as the key piece of how things will go down - I simply did not buy it. (Before you react, yes, I read this part of Tudor History, and I'm still not buying it as the height of conflict for Wolf Hall.)Bring Up the Bodies? No, thank you. I'd rather read about Anne Boleyn's downfall in Wikipedia.
4 The story is a great read and very insightful. However, I have a sight problem and this particular book will not - heavens knows why - do the text to speech which greatly helps me.
1 This review is to uphold the one-star review written by "Gayle".  She says it all.AMEN, SISTER!  What a mess.  I always finish a book; well, almost always.  I read about 60 books a year, but this one was awful!  I ditched it after 120 pages.  I kept thinking it would get better.  It didn't.  I am also going to return the sequel to the library unread.  Too many good books to read to waste time on this author.
5 All the good things I read about this novel are true.  I didn't expect to be so engaged. Now, I am going to read about the Princess Mary.  Driven to history.The point of view is especially unusual and effective.
3 While historically interesting, this novel was hard to follow.  One never knew who &#34;he&#34; was.  Mantel needs English 101 . . . Always make pronoun references clear.  The author's greatest talent is that she captures the atmosphere of the times, the squalor, the cold, the dirt, the extremes of wasteful and corrupt wealth and miserable poverty.  Mantel does manage to make Thomas Cromwell into a sympathetic character--quite a feat--while at the same time showing his manipulating double-dealing.
5 A rare pageturner.  Indepth account of a man who was witness to, and instrumental in the history of Henry's England.  Waiting to read the sequel by Hillary Mantel
4 Enjoyed this historical fiction but it was a hard read. Meaning had trouble keeping track of &#34;he&#34; etc. - had to stop many times to figure out who was &#34;he&#34; (i.e. which character).Over all good read and perspective on this historical period.
5 The  first thing I did when I  finished  Wolf Hall  was to rush to the computer and Google  "  sequel to Wolf Hall".  What a relief  to see that indeed  Hilary Mantel  will continue with her magnificent protagonist  Cromwell and the machinations  of the Tudor Court.In  the past  I have read more than  one Booker Prize winner and wondered how such  a P.O.S could have possibly  won?  This is not the case  with Wolf Hall.  I  took my time  with the book and savored each  page... the elegant , sparse ,  poetic voice  and the wide panorama  of characters and  a  time  beautifully captured.Ms  Mantel truly paints pictures with words :  Her metaphors are brilliant  and there is not a page she has written that will not draw  admiration from anyone  who  loves good writing.  The story blends history with  a gentle blend of  humor and humanity  and follows the rise  from the gutter  of  Thomas Cromwell  to the highest seats of power  in the Court of  Henry  8 .  Hilary's  Cromwell is surely  one of the wisest , secretly  compassionate  and more interesting characters that has appeared in  literature  for some  time. How sad to finish the  book...  Bring out the sequel  soon!
3 The prose style makes this a difficult book to read. The lack of quotation marks and use of "he" to describe Thomas Cromwell's thoughts and statements had me frequently re-reading.  The inconsistent use of full names or formal titles instead of full names had me constantly flipping back to the index.  The problem was exacerbated by the fact that half of the women in Tudor England were named Mary, and half the men were named Thomas.History presented as a series of vignettes can be both interesting and entertaining, and E.L. Doctorow is a master of this style.  Mantel does not quite pull it off, and the result is a jumpy, incoherent narrative.  She hits high notes such as Thomas More lying about the manner of Thomas Bilney's execution, thereby stealing both Bilney's life and death.  The exchanges between Cromwell and More are memorable, particularly the "a lie a thousand years old is still a lie" when describing the history of the Roman Catholic Church.  The description of Cromwell's mind never resting (running the numbers late at night on provisioning the Irish campaign or the value of the belongings of an executed nun in Kent) is a nice touch.Thomas Cromwell's relentless practicality and clear-eyed view of where the political chips were falling was contrasted perfectly with Thomas More's false humility and self-inflicted martyrdom.The book ends very well with Cromwell calculating a trip to Wolf Hall, home to the Seymour family and Henry VIII's next wife.
5 Hillary Mantel's duly well-praised novel tells the story of Thomas Cromwell's rise to power during the tumultuous years between the fall of Cardinal Wolsey and the rise of Ann Bolyen.  If these names are not familiar to you, then perhaps Wolf Hall might be a hard read, but if you have any knowledge of Tudor history and the reputation of these characters, especially Thomas Cromwell, generally portrayed as villain and Thomas More, generally portrayed as a saint, then this complex, beautifully written novel will offer pleasures and insights that will give the reader a beguiling read.  In the realm of Joycean stream-of-consciousness, Wolf Hall moves through the early modern world like a roving camera, noticing telling details, snippets of conversation, random brutality, love and loss, and the forceful destruction of the English Catholicism at the behest and for the benefit of Henry VIII.  To American readers, this all might not seem important or relevant, but if you know anything about how our democracy and rights evolved, then you know the roots of American culture lie in the English Protestant Revolution.  It all starts here, and Hillary Mantel gives us a masterpiece to discover.
2 While interesting events are unfolding, the book does get bogged down in too much detail.  It is also often difficult to know who is talking to whom at the beggingings of chapters.  There are so many characters introduced, it is very difficult to keep them straight - especially since some names recur frequently.
4 I'd readily recommend this book with the caveat that a decent knowledge of Tudor England may be required to follow alot of the dialog and narration; also as other reviewers have noted, it is sometimes difficult to discern who is speaking and a number of times I had to re-read passages to determine who said what. As a rule, whenever I saw the word 'he' I would assume it was Cromwell talking(or thinking), and that seemed to work out. Mantel's characters are all drawn superbly, especially the paranoid and superstitious Thomas Howard who provided some laugh out loud moments for me.
5 You might hear the phrase experimental fiction applied to Wolf Hall or the author Hilary Mantel.  Those words are usually enough to send one back to the young adult section for authors who still know what plot and characterization and the others staples of a good read are.  That would be a big mistake in this case.  This novel is the reason experimental fiction is written.  It can take a well know plot and overused characters and make them new and hard to put down.If you've watched The Tudors, or a Man for All Seasons or taken your AP European History course you will know the basic plot.  What Wolf Hall does is retell the entire story through the eyes of one person, Thomas Cromwell.  The experimental portion comes from two places.  Stylistically it is written in the third person but the narrator is Cromwell, the man who is on every page.  The combination is spellbinding and as Cromwell grows in power the internal mental construct of the simple blacksmith's son and foot soldier conflicts with the man behind the "royal we".  The man who illicitly but honestly could kill becomes the man who licitly but surrounded by intrigue guides the killing.  And that change is told by a narrator speaking of himself in the third person.  The second experimental portion, which grows out of the narrator choice I believe, is the flip-flopping of heroes and villains in the standard storyline.  Flip-flopping isn't the correct word though, it is an act of historical imagination to flesh out the characters in a way that follows the facts instead of the desires for simple heroes.  Thomas More is no longer the heroic saint but still a character that can be admired for his virtues if the narrator struggles to see them.  Thomas Cromwell is no longer the conniving villain rising by dark arts, but a man ahead of his time - a modern in the last gasp of the medieval, also a man with his virtues that his surroundings struggle to see clearly.Wolf Hall passes the first test as a great read that is hard to put down.  It also passes the second test of being artistically meaningful.  In its way, as all art does, it is searching for truth and goodness.  If the standard story is about Thomas More the beautiful, Wolf Hall is about Thomas Cromwell the good and true.
1 I felt like I was reading a screen play. it just never got going and was very hard following the characters
2 I will start with a confession that I have not read the whole novel, or even most of it. But I find this nearly impossible because of the author's peculiar (to put it charitably) notion of 16th Century English. I am not an expert in the subject, but to quote someone who is, "I know a hawk from a handsaw...." Ms Mantel presents what are supposedly conversations conducted before 1550, but the people sound exactly like early 21st Century middle class English living in greater London. It would be possible to write an entire book just about the absurdities of the prose here - and it would be a better book than this one. I will give only a few examples: on page 6, "they were lining up on the wharf to tell me...." The expression "lining up" does not appear in English any earlier than 1770. On page 8, a character says, "You're looking well, considering." This use of "considering" does not occur until well into the 18th century.  On page 16, someone says "Have you set fire to Whitby, on a whim?" The word "whim" was not used in this sense until the late 1600's.I could go on and on. Is this nit picking? Far from it. A book does not consist of nits; it consists of words. If you don't get the words right you don't get the book right. This is always true, and it is truth in spades when you have what purports to be a historical novel. People talked differently in the past because it is the past - and not the present. If they spoke just like us they would have thought just like us, and they would have been just like us wearing funny costumes.If you want an example of how a novel about Tudor England ought to be written, try to get ahold of The Fifth Queen, by Ford Madox Ford. That book is not, strictly speaking, historically accurate, but it is not meant to be because the intent of the author is to present the spirit of the time - and he does this magnificently. But if you can't get the words right, you can't get the thoughts right and you can't get anything right. What aggravates me is the Ms. Mantel does not even attempt to get the words right. A few mistakes here and there - yes, you don't condemn a book because of that. But she makes no effort at all to reproduce the speech of the time or even approximate it. If this same approach was taken to technology, everyone would instantly see something amiss. But how is that any more fantastic than having characters use verbal constructions which would not exist until hundreds of years later? So why not have Henry VIII text-message Anne Boleyn? Or have Cardinal Wolsey read the gospels from his iPad? This would actually make the story more interesting! But it would also let the cat out of the bag: the fact that most people really don't want to read historical novels - they just want tarted up versions of current events with historical figures playing the same roles you see on the nightly news. If all you want is sex, violence, and corruption, the 21st Century can't be beat - and you can get it all for free, just like pornography.(I give the book two stars because I like the historical Thomas Cromwell, and anything which at least could spark interest in him must have some value.)
4 Wolf Hall By Hilary MantelWolf Hall is a recount of a few formative Tudor years during the reign of Henry VIII.  These are the years leading up to major changes in England.  Henry wants what Heny wants and he gets it regardless of what person, what religion, or what tradition may be in the way.  It is not a typical recount as it is told throught the eyes of Thomas Cromwell.  He is a notable figure of the time.  The book brings to light a whole different perspective of Mr. Cromwell and his part in events.This is a large book that took me most of the month to finish.  The beginning slowed me down but then it picked up pace about a third of the way through.  I enjoyed the book.  I enjoyed the perspective that it brought.  I enjoyed being back in my beloved Tudor England like it was fresh and new to me.I will admit the pronoun usage was a stumbling block at first.  I had to stop and think sometimes even when I knew who "he" was referring to.  I'm not sure of the reasoning whether it was a creative usage or an attempt to deal with the vast amount of players named Thomas in the book.All in all I was glad I finally tackled it and will continue to read the triology.  When remains to be seen but someday.  I would recommend it to people who love history and love books that are not what you expect them to be.
1 Historical novel. On Thomas Cromwell.Unfortunately she has grammar conceits that make tough reading. The reader can't disentangle who is speaking. e.g. She uses 'he' several times in the same paragraph to refer to different people. (I suppose she meant 'he', without antecedent, to refer to Cromwell - the protagonist.)She also uses the device of skipping around in time without notice. Makes unnecessary work for the reader.Too much trouble and too much time spent in figuring out what is happening. Too bad. Looks like it's well reasearched and thoughtful but her insistence on breaking literary convention kills the book. I put the book down; didn't finish it.
4 I thoroughly enjoy historical novels and this was one of best. Hilary Mantel is certainly in the ranks of Phillipa Gregory
4 I didn't give it five stars. I'm an admitted history-nerd! England didn't adopt January 1 as New Years day until 1752; until then NYD was on March 25. I appreciate that this might be confusing for readers who aren't aware of that, but I found it highly distracting when the author consistently referred to the January date as being New Years. She did address that in her comments section at the rear of the book but - once again - I found this historical inconsistency to be distracting. Even though this is a work of fiction, I still think it was an opportunity for the author to slip in a little education, via a footnote or something.All of that being said, it's important to keep in mind that this is historical fiction; the actual events that this story is built into are pretty accurate, but the conversations and interactions between characters are speculative. Those factors don't diminish the fact that this is a really good, entertaining read. The characters are fairly well-developed and engaging, and life in the court of Henry VIII is well-depicted as being fraught with tension. I do plan on reading the rest of the trilogy.
5 My mind wouldn't engage with this book the first time I tried, I stopped at page 79. Then I picked it up again and couldn't put it down. Fantastic. Went straight into Bring Up The Bodies. Where is #3. My husband had the same experience. What a fabulous read.
5 I absolutely loved this book.  I could see it as a movie starring Russell Crowe.  One of the best characters we've seen.
5 This book is best read on a iPad or a device that has easy access to the internet.  I appreciated being able to look up the characters or references to historical events.  Being almost thouroughly ignorant of English history that kind of access made the book accessible.The different points of view were exceptionally well presented and otherwise there was enough detail to draw the reader into the story.Yes, indeed, I loved the book and now eagerly await the third volume in this trilogy.
5 Hilary Mantel has never "written the same book twice," a writer so versatile and original that she defies genre.  Though this novel is a thorough and detailed look at the British court and its players from 1529 - 1535, it is so different from the traditional "historical novel" in its themes, massive scope, detailed character development, careful research, and lack of romance that it becomes its own genre, closer to fictionalized biography than to the typical "historical fiction."  The novel is realistic, with no compromises of actual history for the sake of story, but it succeeds in being lively, often humorous, filled with exciting scenes, and peopled with fascinating characters from Henry VIII to Sir Thomas More and Thomas Cromwell.  In an unusual twist, Mantel reverses history as it has been depicted in other literature of this period:  Sir Thomas More, the saintly subject of A Man For All Seasons, is shown here to be rigid and hard;  Thomas Cromwell, often depicted as the evil scourge of More, is, instead, something of a hero.The main action begins in 1527, with Thomas Cromwell, a lawyer in his forties working for Cardinal Thomas Wolsey, the Lord Chancellor, having spent the preceding years working in Europe, where he came into contact with the banking establishment of Florence and the workings of the papacy.  Wolsey's primary duty, assigned to him by King Henry VIII, is to find a way to annul his marriage to Katherine of Aragon, who has lost six sons and is now too old to give him a male heir.  The machinations of the court, the clergy, the kings of Europe, and Henry and his advisors are complex as they vie for power on an international scale, try to manipulate Pope Clement and his papacy, outmaneuver each other, form the most influential alliances, and try to stay in power in their own lands as the Reformation looms.Mantel manages to create intimate stories within this grand scale, making Cromwell a sympathetic hero for much of the novel as he tries to protect his patron, Cardinal Wolsey, as much as possible after King Henry in fury dismisses Wolsey whose arguments for Henry's annulment have failed before the papal legate.  Cromwell, whose own fate has been tied to Wolsey's, must now scramble to preserve his own place in Parliament.  In 1532, however, he becomes the king's chief minister, manages to find a way to get Henry's marriage annulled, and the rest, of course, is history.  The novel ends while Cromwell is still acting for Henry, helping in the dissolution of monasteries and does not suggest his eventual fate.A novel dealing with issues as complex as these cannot be dealt with in any small way, and Mantel takes the time and space she needs to develop the issues clearly while also giving depth to her characters.  The list of chapters at the beginning gives the dates and helps prevent confusion, and a cast of characters, organized by the places in which the characters live or work, clearly identifies their alliances and allegiances.  A genealogical table keeps the royal succession in perspective.  A serious analysis of British history, as well as a novel of immense scope and detail, Wolf Hall is a monumental achievement on every level.  Mary WhippleEight Months on Ghazzah Street: A NovelA Change of Climate: A NovelAn Experiment in Love: A Novel
4 Obviously, this is a wonderful historical novel, showing another side to Thomas Cromwell. My one caveat is the length--I really felt this book could have been tighter.
5 Best seller lists and word-of-mouth had heralded this novel.  Though numerous books of fiction and non-fiction have centered on Henry Tudor, Mantel provides a unique novel in both subject as well as style.  The focus is on a fairly short period of time tracing the fall of Cardinal Wolsey and the related ascendancy of Thomas Cromwell.  Historically, quite a lot happens including the break with Rome, Henry's marriage to Anne Boleyn, and the birth of their daughter, the future Elizabeth I.  The story is told through the eyes of Cromwell himself.  However, Mantel does this through third-person narration, not the usual first person.  This allows her all the advantages of seeing events from Cromwell's perspective but gives her more freedom in the telling of the tale.  What is sometimes difficult for the reader is discerning to whom pronouns sometimes refer.  Often "he" is Cromwell, yet it isn't immediately apparent.  Mantel, though, is a skilled enough writer to provide enough information through dialogue that the reader's confusion is quickly abated.  This novel is an excellent read for those interested in this period of English history and a grand enticement for those wavering.
5 The kind of book that makes writers never want to write another word. Mantel's ability to shape not just an era and its events, but the minds and motives of these involved is mind boggling. And then there's the prose. Toward the end, I was reading entire paragraphs aloud just to savor the language.This is hands down the finest book I've read in twenty or so years. Truly extraordinary. I finished the book on a plane and when we landed, I headed for the nearest airport bookstore and bought BRING UP THE BODIES. It's equally magnificent.
2 This is the first of Ms Mantel's books I've read and frankly probably the last. While her obvious knowledge of the Tudors is impressive, does she think that should negate any -not one- engaging character? Even or especially Cromwell was so difficult to like or hate I longed for the last page almost from the first. My self discipline of finishing any book I start made me slog through to the end. Then what to my wondering eyes appeared but an obvious set up for a continuation in a future book two. Not for me - I'll pass.I am sure there are folks who like this book and admire the knowledge of the author but I cannot recommend it. Sorry.
5 As I think about the book I came to the opinion that Henry VIII was a watershed reign in English History, if not the history of Western Europe.  And Thomas Cromwell nudged him along.  Hilary Mantel tells that story in Wolf Hall.Henry VIII was so insecure that he was actually concerned about what his subjects thought of him.  He knew that by and large they were so unhappy with his decision to set his first wife, Katherine aside that he was willing to set Parliament up as his shield.However, he didn't come to this on his own.  Thomas Cromwell, an abused child of a blacksmith (the book opens with his father kicking him like a soccer ball) manages to reach the level of adviser to Henry.Cromwell moves into Henry's inner circle around the time Henry is getting real serious about Anne Boleyn.Cromwell is very interesting (which is probably why this book is about him) in that he is one of those rare individuals who can quickly read people and so quickly gain an advantage, turning enemies into, if not friends (of course not with the nobility) than allies.Here we have Henry as all the monarchs were, a Divine Right ruler acceding some of his authority, some of his power to Parliament under the guidance of a commoner, Thomas Cromwell.  Even for selfish reasons it is a step forward from which the English Monarchy could never turn away.The Bill of Attainder which in effect decapitated the Catholic Church in England was manipulated by Cromwell.  Wolf Hall does a masterful job of presenting those machinations while showing Cromwell as a sympathetic man who lost his family, wife and two daughters to the "sweating sickness" (now thought to be the hanta virus infection).As his power grows with Henry, his, "family" [my term] also grows as he takes in what is left of his siblings, his wife's siblings, various charges, waifs and strays all of whom become intensely loyal to him.  He does not just house and feed them, but he also trains them for the commercial trades of that period.It seems that after Cromwell's wife died he never remarried.  He did take his sister-in-law to bed.  After a while they came to a mutual agreement to let that arraignment expire and she continued to live in the home in a position of high trust.To his credit then he didn't seem to use his powerful position to abuse people who certainly pledged him their lives.Be aware that Mary is a common name as is Thomas, and keeping them all straight was somewhat of a chore.The book at times seem to want better editing.  I don't know if that is Ms. Mantel's style, or just perhaps that so much is published that there is a lack of good editors.  Still, I saw no reason to put this book aside.
5 I really enjoyed this book. It explored the events that shaped Cromwell and influenced his personality and extraordinary ability manage people, politics, and commerce. He was brilliant, and this novel fleshes out the reasons why he was so successful, initially. It took me a while to get used to the author's writing style, which was a bit confusing at first. Once I got into the rhythm of her narrative, though, I couldn't put the book down.
1 I needn't write paragraphs describing this plot or arguing my case. Enough to say this book "stinketh". Even many members of the Booker English book clubs are aghast. I read through two-thirds (painfully) and then threw it in the trash bin which pained me to no end. I've rarely seen the Booker committee make such a disastrous mistake. Perhaps, this choice was some smartly-decided joke about the pretentiousness of literary pundits and their prizes. If so, it would serve us all right.
5 The writing style of Wolf Hall is intriguing; the turn of a phrase, the rich and yet succinct descriptions and above all, the view of the world through the perspective of Thomas Cromwell captivated my imagination all the way through.  Although usually cast as a villain (or so it seems in my limited reading), Cromwell is a more sympathetic character in this book, and is portrayed in depth within the context of family, circumstance and the political/social climate of the time.My favorite aspect of the book was at the same time confusing. Mantel is erratic in defining who is engaged in a particular conversation, or when the observations being made are Cromwell's as opposed to another person. She does this through a somewhat shadowy use of the pronoun "he," sometimes meaning Cromwell, and sometimes not. The effect is as if seeing someone through the corner of your eye, or finding a star by looking for it with peripheral vision. I thoroughly enjoyed this ambiguity, and the paradoxical sense of reality that it gave her characters.This is a rich, satisfying read especially for those who love all things concerning  English history and this time period. I don't set great store by prize winners, as I find my taste is often not that of the judges. In this case though, I am exceptionally pleased that Wolf Hall and its author have been honored in this way. Kudos for a wonderful novel.
4 A complete about face from the history books.  Thomas Cromwell, the kind family man with charity toward all on one hand and busy signing orders of execution by burning and beheading with the other. Couldn't help but love the guy.  Saintly Thomas More seemed also to be busy eliminating those who disagreed with his philosophy.  Seems we have been misinformed throughout the ages.  Who really knows.  No one is alive to make corrections. It was a really good story though.
4 Excellent writing, and I enjoyed it as an historical novel -- it did keep me reading wondering what would happen next (in much the same way as TV series do...), but I would not rate this as a great piece of literature.  I've no idea of the historical truth of the happenings described, and the invented conversations seemed rather modern in places, but I suppose that helps the reader.  I'll probably read the sequel (Season 2!) sometime, but not soon.
5 I can certainly see why this won the Booker Prize! Being a Tudor junkie (and lurving another Booker prize winner,Life of Pi), of course I had to read it. It took me the better part of a week, and I'm a fast reader, so I think most people should budget about two weeks for this one.It's a breathtakingly ambitious novel, covering decades in real time and with an enormous cast of characters, but I never got any of them mixed up. Mantel turns the accepted view of history on its head by portraying Thomas Cromwell (the historical bad guy) as a driven, intelligent, compassionate and altogether likeable man, whereas Thomas More (future saint) is a self-righteous zealot who gets off on torturing heretics. All the characters, even minor ones, were three-dimensional, and I could buy into everything that was going on, all the machinations of family and court. This is an awesome book and I think it will get people interested in Tudor history.My only caveat is that the book usually referred to Cromwell, the protagonist, as "he" without naming him, the result being that I sometimes got a bit confused as to who was speaking/acting, Cromwell or some other male character present. But it was a minor disruption.
5 This book came in on time and in perfect quality. Anyone who loves Henry VIII will love this book! It is a bit to keep up with, but I definitely recommend!
3 I liked the book and the history was very well researched and presented in a very interesting way.  However, I found it a bit slow, long winded and I was a bit bemused by the rave reviews it has received.
4 A good book of historical fiction, this book focuses on Thomas Cromwell, Henry's secretary.  Cromwell was an interesting part of the TV series "The Tudors", so this book interested me.  That whole lifestyle is interesting to me--I would not have lasted long during those days!  The chess game of matchmaking and power getting is amazing to read about to me.  Good writing style, it was similar to that of Phillipa Gregory, which is a good thing to me.  This was the first book I bought for my Kindle :-)[...]
5 This is one of the finest novels I have ever read....  Hilary Mantel's gift of observation through Thomas Cromwell's eyes exposes a rare perspective on how individuals are swept up in their time .... and how try as they might the are unable to escape their nature and their destiny
5 When I was younger, I could fall head first into books and forget the real world around me. I remember when I was in the fifth grade and I was sitting under the awning at the lunch tables while the other kids were running across the blacktop playground during recess. A teacher, with the very best of intentions, asked me if I wouldn't rather be out with the others. I answered, "No, thank you," and turned back to my book. As I grew older, life got in the way of reading. I still love to read above all else, but now, as an adult, there's always something lingering somewhere--bills, errands, and everything else in the world--and I can't seem to lose myself in reading the way I used to.Enter Hilary Mantel's Wolf Hall. I had just watched a marathon of Showtime's The Tudors over the course of a month, and I was more familiar with Henry VIII's story than I was before. I bought a copy of Mantel's novel, the first in her Thomas Cromwell Trilogy, because I spotted the locket-sized picture of Good King Henry staring, somewhat slyly, from the O in the title on the cover. Mantel brings a fascinating angle to the oft-told Tudor tale by telling the story from Thomas Cromwell's point of view. Cromwell accomplished what no man before him had--he was a commoner who rose to an important position in the kingdom, right-hand man to the king himself. From the first paragraph of the first page of Wolf Hall, I was sucked into the story in a way I hadn't been able to lose myself in a book in years. Mantel does what is most difficult in historical fiction yet most necessary--she weaves the historical research seamlessly into the saga so that the narrative doesn't read like a story/then research/then more story like historical fiction sometimes can. I was transported to 16th century England, with all its reformations and intrigues, a time when a book of British baby boy names had five names in it and three of them were Thomas.I suppose Thomas Cromwell was better looking (spoiler alert!) with his head than without it. But we're not there yet in Wolf Hall. In this first book in the Thomas Cromwell Trilogy, we end with Henry's much-fought-for union with Anne Boleyn. Tudor fans already know Thomas Cromwell's unfortunate fate. The captivating part is the journey as Mantel's expert storytelling leads us there.I bought the second book in Mantel's trilogy, Bring Up the Bodies, when I was halfway through Wolf Hall. I'm already looking forward to it.
5 To the Churchmen Cromwell is Satan's Machiavellian emissary. If "The Prince" is a treatise on wielding power, Mantel's "Wolf Hall" is a lovingly detailed diary of Tudor era court, council, and bedroom scheming. Cromwell takes lessons from Cardinal Wolsey, a butcher's son with refined manners and killer instincts, who rises to fantastic wealth and dies poor. He learns to see with the eyes of those around him, and to foretell the fears and cravings of his patrons, King Henry - who in temper  is not unlike Cromwell's brutal blacksmith father - and the Boleyns. No stranger to Italian politics and finance, he deftly applies Machiavelli's "Il Principe" to become Henry's closest advisor, as powerful as Wolsey. Mantel puts readers inside Cromwell's head. We feel the action as it happens. While it is easy to swallow whole chapters in great gulps, each page deserves slow savoring.
1 After reading all the press about this book, I was looking forward to a good read.  What a disappointment.  The author pretentiously disposes of pronouns frequently - so the reader is left wondering who is talking/thinking.  Not worth the reading time and certainly  not worth the money.
3 My,my dear old Henry does like to 'share it around' does he not. Wives, sisters of wives, and numerous others. If only he had aknowledged his 'bastard son's' he maybe would not have had to behead so many of his wives.An interesting tale, of love, passion,  and yes ladies lesson to be learned &#34; if you want to keep your man, and your head, do not give out on the first date&#34; ... but make sure you are worth it.. or you may still lose your headSo a historical novel, in great detail , Henry V111 and his love affair with Anne Boylen, mother of Elizabeth 1st.Looking forward to reading more by this author in this style.
1 I made it as far as page 125 and then I just couldn't take anymore. The story rambles and aside from the general history, I had no idea where it was supposed to be going. I also had a hard time following the current action. I finally gave up.
3 I found Wolf Hall typical of many of the Booker awardees, impressive pieces of writing which are not enjoyable reads.  The prose is dense and often quirky, a myriad of characters mixed with arbitrary pronouns until one almost has to keep notes or use a highlighter.  The story line is well-told but laborious.  Ultimately,  Thomas Cromwell was a remarkable self-made man who in the end will be ground under by the megalomania of his patron.
4 This novel was recommended to me by at least a half dozen people this year so why did I wait until December to read it?  Well, at least I got to it and I am glad I did!Wolf Hall is Henry the VIII's court though the eyes of Thomas Cromwell.  Since I've read novels set in this time period written from the viewpoint of everything from Henry himself to the court fool I am familiar with the timeperiod.  Even after finishing the novel I am unsure if Cromwell is a sympathetic character or not but it did leave me wanting to read the next book in the trilogy.  If you are not well versed in Tudor history this could be a difficult read.
5 This book is admittedly difficult to wrap one's arms around in the beginning. I ended up loving it. Characters are fascinating and Cromwell is one of the more interesting persons I've ever come across.
4 I enjoyed this book.  I am interested in the history of the Tudors and the lasting and profound effect the impulses of King Henry VIII's lust for Ann Boylen lead to the beginning of the British Empire. Choosing to portray Cromwell not as a villain, but a reasonable opportunist allows the American reader to sympathize with Cromwell all the wild telling this celebrated story.
4 Interesting as a novel, but sketchy as history.  Overall I liked it and I know much, much more about Cromwell, a fascinating character.
4 About half way through Hilary Mantel's Booker Prize-winning novel, I finally started to become somewhat familiar with a few of its characters, their relationship to each other and to the King of England at the time, Henry VIII. Though typically larger than life, the Tudor king steps aside for Mantel's real hero of this tome, Thomas Cromwell. The book opens as young Thomas is being beaten miserably by his tyrant father. He soon strikes out on his own, seeking a clerical life. The story mostly skips his formative years and follows him through the early reign of Henry VIII. He, Cromwell soon rises through his connection with mentor Cardinal Wolsey, to gain influence with the king.Mantel subtly elucidates Cromwell's crucial role in the events leading up through the English reformation; Henry's hard fought annulment of his marriage with Katherine of Aragon and his marriage to the reviled Anne Boleyn. She paints him, Cromwell with a sympathetic eye, chronicling his sometimes-heartbreaking life with his extended family at Austin Friars. On the other hand Sir (St) Thomas More, who opposes Tudor's annulment, refusing to sign an oath to his king, is treated with a bold brush stroke of malevolence (in the audio version he even sounds evil). His end, at the chopping block, seems to come with some relish from the authorMeanwhile, we are treated to behind the scene views of historical notables such as: a very young Jane Seymour, from whose family estate this book borrows its title; Mary Boleyn, the other Boleyn girl, who is portrayed as a strong yet melancholy figure; Mary Tudor, vilified as a dwarf princess, disinherited by her father; and German painter Hans Holbein, responsible for many of the famous portraits of the era.By the end of the novel, I was truly impressed with Hilary Mantel's breadth of historic knowledge and completely engrossed in the story as presented from a fresh point of view. It may take some persuading, but this will stand as one of the better historical novels of our day.4.0 Stars
1 I made it only through 4 of the 18 CDs in this book before giving up.  Hilary Mantel has a gift for dialogue; she brings the past to life in a way that is compellingly realistic, and refreshingly different from any other historical novelist I've read.  I strongly suspect that is what earned this book the prestigious prize.However, all of this great potential is sabotaged by her terrible use of voice, or POV, or whatever you call it.  She uses the present tense, which I hate, anyway.  It seems to have become the "style du jour" in recent years, I suspect writers think it is smart and trendy and connect the reader to their story more strongly.  Maybe some readers like it but I find it jarring and distracting.  And Mantel often descends into the second-person present tense, which is even worse.  At times the  "narrator" of this book seems to be an omniscient third person, at times it seems to be one of the characters, at times the narrator seems to turn to the reader and talk directly to them.  As if all this weren't confusing enough, the author often refers to the characters as "he" or "she" rather than their names, making it even that much more difficult to know who is "speaking" and who is being spoken about.Like I said, I gave up.  If keeping the reader confused is considered high literary style then count me out, I'll just stick to my low-brow books, thank you very much.
2 It's a rare day that I can't finish a book. I couldn't even engage with this one! I wanted to read it because &#34;Bring up the Bodies&#34; won the Booker prize and I figured I'd start with this one first. I couldn't figure out who was talking, who 'he' was or even who the characters were when they were speaking. Conversations were confusing without knowing who was talking and it left me unable to engage in the story or the characters right off the get go. I got about 4 chapters in and gave up. I feel bad I couldn't pursue it but  obviously this style of writing wasn't for me.  I also admit I hated the narrative voice and tense of the text. &#34; He says, she says,&#34; &#34;But she's turned her face away and she's crying&#34;  It's written as if it's the present and I don't know - I could NOT engage with that continuous tense at all. I found it annoying after awhile. I felt like an outsider looking in - for no other way to explain it. When the book opens we visit Cromwell as a child - then we skip like 30 years and he's a lawyer and he's talking to a Cardinal - how did he get there, what are his credentials and his position? Why even introduce him as a child then in the first chapter? Obviously I needed a better understanding of the Tudors before even approaching this book I think. I just could NOT engage with this book at all. It did not capture my imagination, draw me into Cromwell's world or hold my attention.  Other readers have said the same which validates my thoughts - but still a disappointment - I wanted to like this book. I love historical fiction but this one wasn't for me. As a result I won't be reading &#34;Bring up the Bodies' either.
4 This is the first in a trilogy focusing on the life of Thomas Cromwell and his role in the rule of King Henry VIII and the English Reformation. The novel starts with his early life as the son of a blacksmith who was a difficult and harsh man. Thomas gets by as best as he can, performing odd jobs here and there, until he escapes from his family and acts as a mercenary in continental Europe. Clearly bright, despite his lack of formal education, Cromwell learns everything he can and his travels expand his language skills as well. From his humble beginnings, Cromwell uses his skills to build a fortune, along with a family and slowly enters the royal sphere of influence through Cardinal Wolsey. The events in this novel carry Cromwell through the rise of Anne Boleyn and the initiation of the rift between the Roman Catholic Church and England The book has a substantive length and the prose can be dense at times. As other reviewers have mentioned, the author frequently refers to Cromwell in the third person (&#34;he&#34;), but once you get used to this, it becomes more natural. The story is fascinating and involving and is an intriguing perspective on the historical record.
3 I heard the hype about this book and checked it out the library with great interest but found it very difficult to read and boring.  Would not recommend it.
4 I love anything written about Henry 8th & Anne Boelyn. Tho this book was long, and at times tedious to get thru, it was a change of pace to hear this story told from a different point of view. I knew Cromwell was a main character in rid of Anne but I wasn't aware how involved he was in getting her on the throne.
5 I really enjoyed this book by Hilary Mantel. The way she writes the story is excellent; believable, factual, and make you feel like you're in 16th century England. Awesome book!
5 Wolf Hall is the unabridged audiobook adaptation of prize-winning British author Hilary Mantel's novel set in the ruthless climate of King Henry VIII's court. King Henry VIII is without a male heir, and if he dies without a successor, the land is sure to be ravaged by civil war. The king wants to annul his marriage of twenty years and marry Anne Boleyn, yet the pope and Catholic Europe stand in his way. Into the power struggle between the Church and the Crown strides Thomas Cromwell, whose ambition, silver tongue, and self-taught political skill maneuver him into the nations second most powerful figure after Henry. Cromwell finds a way to break the deadlock allow the king to follow his heart's wish, but Henry's moods are volatile at best - what will be the ultimate price of the King's demands? Simon Slater's narration brings to life this sweeping saga of power and danger, where a single misstep spells brutal doom. Highly recommended. 18 CDs, 23 hours.
2 "Wolf Hall" might be a great read. It might be a magnificent authorial achievement, worthy, even of some prizes...some day. But it needs a thoroughgoing edit first. As currently published, it is so replete with errors of grammar, syntax, punctuation  and usage that it's hard for a reader to stay focused. Was the editor gone fishing? Did the Man Booker judges have a few too many with lunch?
4 I love historical novels centering on real persons and real events.  I especially enjoy novels focusing on European history, particularly England.  Hilary Mantel has written a long, detailed, and (I think) largely historically accurate tale of the life of Thomas Cromwell, a blacksmith's son who rose to be Henry VIII's chief minister, perhaps second in power only to the king himself.  Although I found the book slow going at first, it picked up the pace in the second half, primarily as it narrated the conflict between Cromwell and Thomas More over the king's annulment of his own marriage to Queen Katherine so that he could marry Anne Boleyn.  The book climaxes at the end as the intense rivalry concludes with More's execution (no spoiler here if you know any Tudor history) and Cromwell's unparallelled rise to supreme power.Overall the book is enjoyable, informative, entertaining.  But it is flawed, deeply I think, by what is an unnecessary stylistic device.  The story is told in the third person from the viewpoint of Cromwell himself - no problem there.  The difficulty is that Mantel never refers to Cromwell by name in her own narrative.  Other characters utter the name, but Mantel the narrator never does.  And this leads to constant confusion for even the most attentive reader, requiring many passages and even pages to be reread and then reread again to make sure we've got the characters straight.It's not Mantel's fault that so many of the characters (real people almost all of them) have names in common - too many Thomases, Henrys, Elizabeths, Marys etc. to count and so they can be hard to track when speaking together in the same room and addressing each other.  But I found her practice of only referring to Cromwell as "he" and "him" through 600 pages to be both confusing and tiresome.  There were scores if not hundreds of times when a single sentence might use the word "he" to refer to two or even three separate people.I found myself reading and rereading pages of dialogue because the first time through a passage I got the "he's" mixed up and attributed the wrong words to the wrong character.  It slowed down my reading of the book, so it took a lot longer to get through than is usually my experience.  This is simply inexcusable and could have been so easily remedied if Mantel had only been willing to refer to Cromwell as Cromwell.  It's a small stylistic issue that I felt really detracted from the reader's experience in what was otherwise a fine historical novel that turned historical figures into interesting and plausible characters.  I'm sure she had her reason for adopting this style, but I can't fathom it myself.
5 Aside from Abraham Lincoln and the Civil War, it's hard to think of any historical event that has been the subject of more fiction than the story of Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn. Hilary Mantel, however, ingeniously makes the story new in "Wolf Hall" by telling it through the eyes of Thomas Cromwell. Cromwell, though of crucial importance to the story, is usually portrayed, at best, as the villain. Through a heroic combination of scholarship and imagination, Mantel places Cromwell front and center, presenting him as a totally new sort of man whom only the Renaissance made possible.According to Mantel, in a time and place where people were governed by religious fanaticism, gut appetites or a combination of the two, Cromwell was something else again: an ambitious but thoughtful pragmatist, seeking power but also seeking to use it to create a more just and reasonable society than the one he lived in. In a memorable, exquisitely written scene at the novel's beginning, the teenage Cromwell says goodbye forever to the superstitions of his time: "Kat has given him a holy medal to wear. He has slung it around his neck with a cord. It makes a chill against the skin of his throat. He unloops it. He touches it to his lips, for luck. He drops it; it whispers into the water." Later, Cromwell tirelessly makes backroom deals for the powerful men he serves--Cardinal Wolsey first, then Henry. Cromwell does battle with Thomas More, in scenes that will raise the hackles of those whose ideas of More come from "A Man for All Seasons." Mantel presents More as a cruel, devious fanatic who delights in torturing and burning Protestants. Toward the end, at More's trial, Cromwell for once stops playing the courtier and makes his true feelings known: "You do nobody harm? What about Bainham, you remember Bainham? You forfeited his goods, committed his poor wife to prison, saw him racked with your own eyes...so that finally his body was so broken that they had to carry him in a chair when they took him to Smithfield to be burned alive. And you say, Thomas More, that you do no harm?"Mantel is considerably less revisionist in her presentation of other Tudor figures. Anne Boleyn is still a haughty, scheming little minx, if anything more haughty and scheming than ever; her uncle, the Duke of Norfolk, is still a paragon of worthlessness. Mantel's treatment of Henry is nuanced and even tender, reinforcing the common idea that he would have been both a great and a good man had he not possessed the absolute power of life and death over everyone in England."Wolf Hall" has a profusion of characters, and Mantel doesn't always make plain who is speaking when. But this is a minor flaw compared with the novel's sweep and the fascinating detail it presents of life, religion and politics in Tudor England. At the end she has us salivating for the inevitable sequel, in which Jane Seymour (whose family estate Wolf Hall was) takes the stage and Cromwell eventually keeps his own date with the headsman.
5 First up, point ceded about the third person pronouns. I assume they were used as some kind of alienation effect, but they do sometimes trip the reader up. Once you get over that (and truly it is not nearly as much of an issue as people make out) this is undoubtedly the best novel written in English on the Tudor period. This is not a squelchy romance with a soundtrack by Hans Zimmer (if you want that, there are dozens of other novels available) but a huge, intelligent tapestry of a book that seems to contain an entire world within its pages. I have read it twice, and will undoubtedly read it again. Very much looking forward to the sequel.
2 I rarely give books negative reviews--simply because I think I have some idea what kind of Herculean effort and ability it takes to write a novel.So my review here is more of a warning to people who might be looking for a "story."I bought my copy at a local independent bookstore, and I paid full retail, $27, for the book, and for the first time in my life, I later looked at the receipt and considered attempting to return it--even for a store credit.The opening scenes here of Cromwell as a boy are quite strong, and I had no trouble following the prose, even though the pronoun "he" was sometimes a little confusing.But then, I slogged through about a hundred pages, trying desperately to figure out who was speaking, who was thinking . . . and at times, if the conversation was actually happening or in someone's mind.  After about 127 pages, I began alternately skimming and reading some parts closely, all the while hoping a story might begin.  I read a number of paragraphs six or seven times just to try to figure out what in the world was happening--and most of the time, I never did.Rather than needing an editor, I think this book needed a much, much more stringent copy-editor.  The copy-editor is the person who goes over the final manuscript and looks for a number of things, such as continuity issues . . . or sentences or areas that don't make sense.Clearly, some people really liked this book, and so I don't want to be discouraging.  I just warn people who are looking for an actual story in a novel.
4 I liked this book. It gave a good look into the life in and around the court of Henry VIII. The writing style takes a little getting used too, it's very fast and feels a little rushed sometimes. But once you get used to it, it suits the fast-paced thinking of Cromwell. I enjoyed the contrast of his ordered world in his own household and the constant turn-around at court.
4 Author Hilary Mantel gives the reader a new take on that oft told tale of Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn by showing it through the eyes of Thomas Cromwell, who despite humble beginnings was able to raise himself very high while aiding Henry VIII to rid himself of Katherine of Aragon in "The King's Great Matter", as well as his involvement in the Reformation and destruction of the monasteries and abbeys (to his own great gain). I think most of us have read enough about Henry and his six wives and know the basics, as well as enough reviewers have come before me so I don't need to rehash it all again. I'm just here to give my two cents on the book.While I did enjoy a fresh take on this period, seeing it through the eyes of Cromwell, as well as seeing him interact with his wife, children and other family members, I did find the present tense very distracting and I had a difficult time getting started. Frankly, I picked up (and finished) four different books in between periods working on this one - although one covering the same period helped me a great deal as it served as a *refresher course* on who and what Cromwell was.I found I couldn't read it during the work week at the end of the day when my brain was tired as well as on weekends when it was getting too close to bedtime - I put it down and read something lighter. That said, by the time I hit page 150 or so I was enjoying it a great deal and eventually I wasn't bothered the present tense at all, nor the excessive use of referring to Cromwell as "he" (it will drive you nuts at first).I've seen this book described as a "rich meaty stew" and that's pretty much how I approached it, I took it in small bites over several weeks instead of gorging myself all at once and getting heartburn (reader burnout). Or you can look at it like you're climbing a mountain - you have to stop to rest and acclimate yourself, as well as slowing down to savor the shifting scenery as it changes from the alpine meadows and flowers to the starker views of the alpine tundra above the tree line. And wow towards the end when I reached the summit and saw the beauty of it all below me.I loved the characterizations of the Boleyns, especially Anne, Mary and George (and oooh, his witchy wife Jane Rochford), anytime they were in a room things really moved along. I really enjoyed Cromwell's dry wit and I'll share some of my favorites here,Cromwell's family asking him about Anne Boleyn,"They say she is graceful. Dances well.""We did not dance."Mercy says, "But what do you think? A friend to the gospel?"He shrugs. "We did not pray.""Are her teeth good?""For God's sake woman: when she sinks them into me, I'll let you know."Mary Boleyn,"Anne has very long legs. By the time he comes to her secret part he will be bankrupt. The French wars will be cheap, in comparison."Discussing Anne's virtue (or lack of) with Wyatt,"...Besides, the king is no judge of maidenheads. He admits as much. With Katherine, it took him twenty years to puzzle out his brother had been there before him."Final thoughts - if you're a first time novice reader on this period this is not the book for you - you need to come into this knowing who is who and who did what to whom. If it's been a few years and you're feeling rusty, find something else first and give yourself a refresher course. Lastly, do not be afraid to put the book down and take a breather and pick it up again later. If it isn't the book for you don't be afraid to just stop, prestigious literary award or not. Not every book is going to be for every person and life is too short. 4/5 stars.Thanks to Henry Holt and Company for my copy of this book.
4 A fairly hefty tome, but it is worth wading through it. Great characters, and though not the easiest read (not for bed-time), it is worth it for the twists and turns of the plot
3 I really liked the story of Thomas Cromwell. The author presents a likeable, capable man doing what he could to advance his king and those lucky enough to fall under his care. Oh, but it was hard reading. Keeping track of the nobles and their actions was not easy, and did effect my enjoyment of the story. I'm a Big fan of the Henry, Katherine, Ann triangle but it was clouded by the rest of the who's who.
5 Mantel chose probably one of the most enigmatic players of Tudor England, the oft-vilified Thomas Cromwell, to explore the court of Henry VIII. Cromwell, who deftly weaves between memories of his childhood and present 16th-century day, is presented as a tolerant, wise lawyer with a business acumen unsurpassed in his time.Born a mere commoner into abject poverty, Cromwell rose through the ranks of the Tudor court in meteoric fashion. The right-hand man of Cardinal Wolsey, himself the son of a butcher, Cromwell deftly avoided the Cardinal's sad fate by delivering to Henry VIII precisely what the Cardinal could not: a divorce from Katherine of Aragon.Wolsey appears in the pages as benevolent, if slightly bewildered by the unexpected rise of Anne Boleyn. "...Anne is not a carnal being, she is a calculating being, with a cold slick brain at work behind her hungry black eyes." After his demise at the hands of the Boleyn family, Cromwell becomes the go-to man of Henry himself and facilitates England's break with the Pope and the Church of Rome.And while the reader certainly becomes a part of Cromwell's life, it should not be mistaken that this novel is entirely about Thomas Cromwell. The novel is, in point of fact, a full-fledged portrait of the Henry VIII's court: the characters, the intrigue and the political backroom deals where fortunes were made and heads were lost. "There's no man in the room who doesn't want Henry to have what he wants. Their lives and fortunes depend on it."The Duke of Norfolk ("If you tell Norfolk anything, he will twist it into treason.") skips nimbly across the pages, a coarse man full of bluster, while Thomas More is bent on ecclesiastical vengeance, determined to stamp out the Protestant tidal wave sweeping Europe: "He would chain you up, for a mistranslation. He would, for a difference in your Greek, kill you."Harry Norris, Thomas Wyatt, Mary Boleyn, Stephen Gardiner, Charles Brandon all feature prominently and are, for the student of Tudor history, a veritable feast of characters.Overflowing with period detail and a droll wit, this is not an introductory novel to the Tudors. The sheer volume of characters and the depth of their motivations make this a complex story better suited, or at least most enjoyed, by those who have a good grasp of the historical players of the time.I thought the novel was, quite simply, brilliant.Word on the street is that Mantel will produce a sequel to Wolf Hall, one that continues to follow Cromwell's rise to power vis-a-vis Henry's marriage to his third wife, Jane Seymour, which will produce the long-awaited male heir to the Tudor throne.
5 I got this book from my public library a year ago and did not have time to finish it before it was due.  Now that I have ordered and received it from Amazon I can start again and finish it at my leisure!  It's not a book you can whip through rapidly so I am thrilled to have what appears to be a brandnew paperback.  Thanks so much.  Service was fast and impeccable!!
5 For those of us who are fascinated by Henry VIII and all his wives, now a new take on the story focussing on Thomas Cromwell.  This is a novel filled with intrigue and wit.  Mantel has researched her subject well and brings the Tudor court to life.
4 The word that comes first to my mind is savor.  The author's writing style is so delectable that I found myself re-reading certain passages to enjoy the images and the moods once again.  It takes a few pages to get use to the style but well worth the effort. Once on my way I never noticed any difficulty.  There are certainly many books and films about this time period but this study of Thomas Cromwell is excellent.  I say read this book. You won't regret it.
1 I just hate this book - lucky I bought the kindle version when it was at the cheaper price. It is rather pretentious.
5 I loved this book - one of the best I've read since 'The Paris Wife'. Even if you know all about Henry VIII, read this. It's a different viewpoint altogether and gives a real insight into how ordinary people lived in the 16th century. Buy it today.
4 A fascinating look at a moment in history that changed the Church.  I visited London (and the Tower) as a child and was absolutely fascinated by Henry VIII, but had long since forgotten the details of why he went through all those wives.  Because this book only took me through his marriage to Anne Boleyn, I have to see what happens next according to Hillary Mantel!I rated the book with 4 stars instead of 5 for two reasons.  It's a tough, meaty read - and I had to invariably go back a few sentences to figure out who was the &#34;he&#34; she was referring to...invariably it was Thomas Cromwell, but it still was a bit frustrating.  But I will definitely read the series!
5 I'm still reading this, as it isn't something one can just inhale. Wonderful writing,amazing detail, really a (dare I say) meaty read. Enjoying every sentence!
4 One might be forgiven for wondering whether the world really needed another work of historical fiction on the subject of Henry VIII and any of his wives.  At a certain point, one has had enough of the Boleyn sisters.  Mantel, however, approaches the subject from a less romantic, but more interesting, point of view, that of Thomas Cromwell, secretary to Cardinal Wolsey and advisor to the king.  Wolf Hall, with the exception of a brief chapter relating to Cromwell's youth, covers the years of Henry's struggle to annul his marriage to Catherine of Aragon and most of his marriage to Anne Boleyn.  It is quite a sympathetic portrait of a man who is oft-maligned, but whose administrative genius and reformist accomplishments cannot be doubted.  Those whose knowledge of Cromwell and Thomas More is confined toA Man for All Seasonsmay be surprised to find quite a different view of the two here.  This period of English history was one of great change.  It was a period of reformation, both religious and political, and Cromwell was at the center of events.  As he delicately weaves his way along the path to power, evading dangers at every turn, Mantel's Cromwell also reveals himself to be a generous man, a patron of the arts (particularly Hans Holbein), a financial whiz, a clever and detail-oriented politician, but one who always has his country's interests at heart, as well as his own.  At bottom, he loves England and he serves his king.According to myEncyclopedia Britannica, "[i]f he had a private life, nothing is known of it."  That isn't quite true.  We know, for instance, whom he married, and that his wife and two daughters died, apparently of the "sweating sickness", within a short time of each other, and that he had a son, who married Jane Seymour's sister.  But that's the bare bones.  Nevertheless, Mantel has imagined for Cromwell a very rich private life indeed, and she manages to make it ring true to what we do know of his history.Mantel writes beautifully, for the most part.  Her dialogue is natural, and she has a fine eye for description ("gentlemen . . . wearing their fallen-fruit silks of mulberry, gold and plum").  My one quibble is that she generally uses "he" in place of "Cromwell", so that it is often difficult to know to whom she is referring, particularly when she is narrating conversations among multiple speakers.  However, once one gets used to this quirk, all is well.Suggested further reading:Letters of Henry Viii, 1526--29: Extracts from the Calendar of State Papers of Henry VIII (Uncovered Editions)The Lisle Letters: An Abridgement(The Lisles are several times referred to in Mantel's novel.  I won't suggest you read all six volumes!)
5 I read the high and low reviews which prepared me for the structure of how the novel is written. When realizing that &#34;he&#34; means Cromwell almost all the time, it is easier to navigate the story and get caught up in the author's storytelling ability. I know little about Cromwell and appreciate Ms. Mantel's view of Henry VIII's court.
5 This is an intriguing novel about Thomas Cromwell which casts him in a favorable light--not the villain  as is customary.  It is a book which also goes into some historical depth regarding the characters of the Tudor period. I was fascinated by it
1 I'm thinking I don't appreciate the writer's approach to the story.  Very difficult to follow so I didn't finish the book.  That is something I never do.  Sure wish I had read the reviews before purchasing my Kindle copy.
5 I loved this book and the sequel and await the third book impatiently. Mantel is brilliant. The best book I read all year.
5 It seems a bit redundant to heap more accolades on Hilary Mantel's Wolf Hall, the 2009 Mann Booker prize winner, but the author has done such an extraordinary job of portraying the characters and events in 16th century England that it cannot be helped. Mantel weaves two strong story lines that intertwine and become inseparable. The most compelling is that of the rise to power of Thomas Cromwell. Born of humble origins to a blacksmith father who beats him viciously and regularly, Cromwell ran away and began one of the most remarkable ascents in English history. After a long period abroad, where he learned many useful things, Cromwell lands under the wing of the powerful Cardinal Thomas Wolsey, adviser to King Henry VIII. Cromwell reveres Wolsey, but loses his support when Wolsey falls into disfavor. When Wolsey dies in disgrace, Cromwell makes note of those who participate in his downfall. Even without the protection of his mentor, Cromwell quietly amasses power, eventually becoming Henry's trusted right hand man. All along the way he keeps careful tabs on those who deride him for his humble origins, and those who do so pay a steep price.The parallel story is that of Henry VIII and his frantic search for a male heir. His wife, Catherine gives him a daughter who will eventually become Queen Mary, but Henry wants a son. He divorces Catherine and marries Anne Boleyn, an act that ultimately drives a wedge between Rome and the Church of England.Some of the important characters are portrayed differently than I would have expected. In particular, Thomas More, who is cast in a very favorable light in A Man for all Seasons, comes across as cold and heartless, someone who deserves execution and gets it.The book is paced nicely and held my attention throughout. That said, I had some confusion keeping up with the characters. There are lots of Thomases, lots of Marys, and sometimes the speakers were not identified as clearly as I would have liked, so I had to backtrack to catch up. Even so, three cheers (and five stars) for Mantel for a job well done. I look forward to the sequel.flag
4 Very well written. Written from the voice of Thomas Cromwell.Makes one think about the effect of the events on all those involved.
4 At times, the concentration required to read Wolf Hall felt comparable to reading a novel in a foreign language.  Mantel's ethereal prose is partly at fault, giving the story a dream-like feel as characters, settings, and time periods shift sometimes multiple times in a single page.  This is a price I was more than willing to pay in return for lyrical passages such as "The fate of peoples is made like this, two men in small rooms.  Forget the coronations, the conclaves of cardinals, the pomp and the processions.  This is how the world changes: a counter pushed across a table, a pen stroke that alters the force of a phrase, a woman's sigh as she passes and leaves on the air a trail of orange flower or rose water; her hand pulling close the bed curtain, the discreet sigh of flesh against flesh."However, like other reviewers, I am less forgiving towards three traits of Mantel's writing that further confuse an already challenging text:  Constant and undisciplined use of the pronoun 'he,' which most often but not always signifies Cromwell; the use of multiple names for individual characters; and inconsistent use of quotation marks.  None of these flaws is fatal, but they keep me from giving the novel a fifth star and could have been easily remedied by a good editor.That said, much like reading a classic text in its original tongue, Wolf Hall is worth the extra time and effort.  Just don't expect to wade through it at the beach, or - as I tried - at a noisy family gathering.
5 I too have read many a book - fiction and other - on the Tudors. Cromwell never came off as anything but a calculating opportunist. This book was fascinating to me in that Cromwell was lovable and Wolsey was downright charming. My Catholic headmaster frowned at me when he saw me reading this - I guess the Catholics don't like the less-than-flattering portrait of Thomas More. I'm not sure I'm behind all the characterizations, but SOMEONE must have loved the guy! It is fun to see one's notions of history turned upside down at times. And this book does it impeccably. I recommend it highly.
5 Can't wait to read the next book in this trilogy. Very well written and I have already recommended this book to friends.
4 Great for history buffs. I enjoyed this 'version' of history, it's very different from what I expected; raw edgy and surprisingly modern reinterpretation of Henry's court and his right hand man Thomas Cromwell. Looking forward to Bring up the Bodies next!
5 What can I say that has not been written before - it's Cromwell, and Henry and Ann Boleyn ...but Ms Mantel makes it all riveting, and new again! It turns out even in Henry's time, it was all about the Economy, of course!! The peers of the realm, assuming their power comes by their noble birth, have no understanding of the power of money! Enter the brilliant Cromwell! He can simplify the balance sheet of the kingdom to one page, easy for even Henry to grasp. He has connections with bankers all over Europe- he can assess cloth, gems, food, wines, estates at one glance. And he gives sound advice,  though with great charm and courtesy.I loved his dialogues as he climbs up the social scale - inscisive, witty, self deprecating. I loved the deliberate contrast between the able, whip smart young men trained by Cromwell and the effete, arrogant dandies who don't know and don't care about the undercurrents at the court.The greatest pleasure in this book comes from seeing how the smallest gestures, stratagems, bargains and advice offered by Cromwell are all part of a very deliberate, cohesive plan that unfolds slowly. finally forming a large silky web with the king in the middle, courtiers caught all around and Cromwell quietly spinning away in the corner.I really enjoyed reading her version of Henry's obsession with Ann, and her extreme smug satisfaction when she weds and becomes a queen. After all, these very strange events did actually happen, so one assumes there was a temporary obsession!You'll enjoy this book.
3 This is a difficult book to read.  With that in mind I will continue reading in order to see if the book improves in its narrative. The grammer is poorly edited, the voice is unclear and the extra details are distracting. As far as being a "good read" of an historical novel this misses the point.
1 It is disjointed and very hard to read.  I got lost and put it down. I would not recommend it
4 A little hard to get into, but well worth the effort. After the first 50 pages, I couldn't put it down.
5 I so much enjoyed this novel.  It was well written and gave me a better understanding of the political dealings during the time of Henry VIII.  I knew the other Cromwell of the Charles I period, but nothing about this other complicated, brilliant Cromwell.  Well worth the read.
5 I would highly recommend this novel to serious readers of historical fiction,those who deplore the bodice-ripper approach. The writing style is tinged with wry humor. The characters are portrayed with sensitivity and depth. I can't wait to read the second novel in this series.
3 This book is immense. It is risky. It is voluminous in both the concept and execution. After a gripping, jaw-dropping opening scene from which I couldn't turn away, I got ready to be intrigued and thrilled for all those many, many pages covering a cast of thousands. Reading it caused an unrelenting state of near sedation.The author chose a subject about which much is recorded during a time frothing with political intrigue, sexual tension, religious fervor, passionate affairs and lurid excentricities. While there are dozens of dynamic tales that could have been explored, this one managed to miss the biggest story.Henry VIII lusts for Anne Boleyn who according to other characters has "had" every male capable of bearing his own weight, yet she will not give in to Henry in order that her offspring will be on the throne after her death. Anne Boleyn's climb for the top of her world is renowned, but what's more memorable is her fall from Henry's graces and her ultimate end on the block. It's where the tour guides take you at the Tower of London, "Here's where Anne B. knelt. Here's where the basket caught her head." The novel is supposed to be about Thomas Cromwell. And it is. Except we aren't really sure. Sort of. It is, after all, about all of English History at once. Was or wasn't Cromwell there when Boleyn got hers, too? Either way, THAT would have been interesting to know, after the mountains of words about the prolonged courtship and teasing. Why, after hundreds of pages, couldn't we go on a couple more and finish the story?Instead of a bang we end with a pffft. Thomas More, after a dastardly life of sociopathic pursuit of religious heretics that makes the Spanish Inquisition seem merely like Chapter Two, goes to the chopping block after refusing to abrogate his statements about Catholicism. Bingo. The End. hmmmm.After all these pages one would expect to know to where or what the title Wolf Hall refers.Any time a writer decides to throw convention to the wind and re-write the rules for story-telling, they take a great risk. If you got lost reading Cormac McCarthy, you may never return trying to figure out the deluge: pronouns, pronouns, everywhere and not an antecedent in the mix. We know not whom 'he' is, nor when 'he' speaks with 'him' is 'he' him or is 'he' he? Halfway through I realized that the author was substituting "he" for the main character Thomas Cromwell. If they'd only put a disclaimer on the front cover so we knew - sort of a roadmap, like "when I say him I mean me but when I say he I mean him." (Not kidding, even that much would be clearer than just muddling through.)Thomas, yes, Thomas, Tom, Thom. Tom Wycliffe, Tom More, Tom Cromwell, Tom Thumb. History is peppered with Henrys and Thomases, Annes and Marys. What a challenge to put this all in clear context. However, the concept of unique names for recognition in fiction writing is imperitive. A writer can't change the real people's names, but for heaven's sake, stick with one per person! Even Cromwell's name is spelled differently depending upon which character is addressing him. (Cremuel) Nicknames come and go for MANY characters. A great deal of energy is expended defining a Mr. (somebody) Wriothesley who wants his name pronouced "Risely" and from then on SOME of the characters call him Wriothesley, some call him his first name (another Thomas perhaps) some call him Riseley, some call him "Call Me." This is likely what REAL people do but so incredibly hard to follow on the printed page.Ever written anything in present tense? It ought to make things seem potent. As a writer, present tense increases tension, she writes. But in present tense as in life, we see through a glass darkly, and in present tense everything seems suspended, unremitting, unknowable, as indeed life is, yet, the author's prerogative is to condense, define, and illuminate, not to muddle. If you don't mind reading with a stack of sticky notes, pencils, and a highlighter pen, go ahead. The genealogical chart in the front is not nearly enough. It's not dreadful, but if I hadn't been snowed in for a week with nothing else to read I'd never have finished it.
5 I have to say that I love all things Tudor, and Wolf Hall is no exception, but it is exceptional. In most of the novels about Henry VIII's England, Cromwell plays a role, but he's never been the main character. Writers most often leave the famous wives of Henry VIII (divorced, beheaded, died; divorced, beheaded, survived) to play that role. In reality, not a lot is known about this person, but Hilary Mantel has woven her tale not only around Cromwell, but through him.In Wolf Hall, Hilary Mantel takes a slice of Tudor history and allows the reader to view it through the eyes of Thomas Cromwell, who rose through life from his origins as the son of a blacksmith to become the chief minister of King Henry VIII. From his humble origins, he manages to become an important advisor to the ill-fated Cardinal Wolsey, who, as everyone knows, started his downhill slide because of his inability to provide Henry VIII with a Church-sanctioned divorce from Katherine of Aragon. It is, ironically, Wolsey's fall that begins Cromwell's rise. Cromwell survives by his own maxim: "inch by inch forward. Never mind if he calls you an eel or a worm or a snake. Head down, don't provoke him." (4) His fortune is on the ascendant throughout the story, but as everyone also knows, fortune is fleeting, and especially in this time largely at the whim of the king.Mantel gives Cromwell, who is often vilified in many Tudor history accounts, a human face. While he's busy rewriting life at court to suit his majesty and most often, to suit himself and his own desires for reform, Cromwell also is shown to be a family man and a man with a heart who cares about those less fortunate than himself. Cromwell's present is largely defined through his past, and it is through Cromwell's eyes that the reader watches the Tudor world unfold.Mantel's characterization is excellent -- Anne Boleyn comes off as a cold, calculating queen wanna-be who will stop at nothing to get her way. Mary Boleyn, the queen's former mistress, is a bit Ophelia-like, capturing Cromwell's sympathy. Mantel's Henry (via Cromwell) is a monarch more concerned about the lack of an heir rather than the tyrant or the woman chaser that many books make him out to be. The side players are also well characterized: aside from Cromwell's family and friends, the various dukes, courtiers, and people of the French Court become very human, often with the veneer of royalty and nobility stripped off to reveal crudity, greed, ambition jealousy and fear. Even some of the "common" people, the subjects of Henry VIII, are portrayed here.Wolf Hall is simply a masterpiece. Even though it comes in at about 651 pages, it goes quickly as the reader gets caught up in the world Mantel so eloquently creates. I would highly recommend it to anyone interested in Henry VIII and that time period. Readers looking for something along the lines of "The Other Boleyn Girl" won't find it here...this is fiction at its finest.
3 One is frequently drawn to read an award winning book, but I've had mountains of trouble following Mantel's writing. It is choppy without coherence at times, with a somewhat odd sentence structure. I've had to refer to the list of characters frequently in an attempt to figure out who she is talking about, and have had to stop to contemplate the skips in topics and characters within chapters. While I'm not a literary genius, a book must flow for me to be captivating.  This book did not. That said and after plodding through the book, I found Thomas Cromwell a distinctive and masterful character. The Tudors certainly provide fodder for numerous books as well as TV, don't they?
5 This is one of those rare commodities-a great historical novel.I use the word "great" guardedly.The genre has,rightly,somewhat of a reputation for being "unserious" and often over-romantic,but this is neither.As someone who read history at university,I know a fair amount about the Tudor period,without calling myself an expert.The device of seeing the period through the eyes of Thomas Cromwell is a successful one,and what Ms Mantel does best of all is bring the period to life through small details often not covered in the many,many histories of the Tudor period.The weather and one's health constantly impinge on the proceedings,as they would in the days before central heating and at a time when medical care was rudimentary,and death ever-present.I also liked the way she brought to the fore one often-forgotten fact:that Henry VIII (as with other kings) was not a secure totalitarian leader who went around chopping off people's heads at will.He was insecure because the loyalty of the people was always in question,the threat of foreign invasion ever-present,there were other possible contenders to the throne,and the loyalty of the major nobles could not be taken for granted.A true "magnum opus",for which,thank you,Ms Mantel.
1 I found this to be a very difficult read. It was hard to know which character was talking as much of the dialogue was not in quotes but &#34;spoken&#34; from the character's mind.
5 I am not eng-lit type and  English is my third language but i am enjoying this book immensely. This is type of book that has  to be read like  you taste an expensive wine- slowly not gulp like a  cheap beer.  Page-turners for me are precisely that- turn the page because there is nothing to linger.  Like books of Wodehouse, Martin Amis,  this is a book  you want reread while you reading it for the first time -don't want to turn the page till you get full juice out of it.(typing on iPad is damn annoying)The use of 'he says' is very confusing. Hard to figure out who 'he' is.
5 As a historical fiction nut, I loved this viewpoint of King Henry VIII's "predicament." I did find it a bit difficult in following through as I was never sure who was saying what at times. But, all that said, the book was difficult for me to put down. Ms. Mantel is a superb writer. Their daily lives, descriptions of dress, food, family and social life was almost too real. I could put myself there with a blink of an eye. Don't miss the sequel "Bringing Up the Bodies."
4 One thing has to be said for Hilary Mantel's `Wolf Hall' - she knows how to capture our attention. The initial meeting with the protagonist, Thomas Cromwell, grabs you by the collar, yanks you into the story, and keeps you immersed in 16th. Century England till the very end.`Wolf Hall' is a book that wears its scholarship lightly. However, it is one that is better appreciated with an intense curiosity, rather than a vague interest in the Tudor Period; particularly the reign of Henry VIII. That happens to be the story's setting. The monarch of England is dissatisfied with his current marriage to Katherine of Aragon, both because it has failed to produce a male heir to a throne, and because he is infatuated with Anne Boleyn, who has apparently told the King something along the lines of "not a thing till I get that ring".But we're talking about 16th. Century Europe which is in the thrall of the Catholic Church. Divorce is taboo, and annulment by papal consent, though possible in other cases, will not be considered here. Why? Because Queen Katherine of Aragon is the aunt of King Charles V of Spain, who just happens to be the Holy Roman Emperor, and whose feathers the Pope dare not ruffle. King Charles the V is moved by more than mere family sentiment - if Henry's marriage to Katherine is annulled, their only child, Mary, would be removed from the line of succession. For all practical purposes, Charles V would obviously rather have his cousin on the throne of England.What options does King Henry have? This is a period of religious restlessness and social turmoil. Martin Luther's Protestantism is spreading throughout Europe, despite the Church's attempts to squash it with its full and brutal might. The translation of the Bible into English is giving access to every Englishman who might want to interpret the Lord's word for himself. And that certainly can't be allowed to happen.Ultimately, England's break with the Catholic Church, which was a turning point in European history had less to do with religion, and was more a pursuit of passion, a pursuit of politics.The King's man, who job it is to make the impossible possible is Thomas Cromwell. In an age of frivolous gentlemen, all jockeying to be the trusted adviser of a vain, fickle-minded King, Cromwell stands out as a man of substance. Coming from a humble background that he won't be bothered to either conceal or improve upon, Cromwell comes across a pragmatic, ruthlessly competent man, with a long memory for both friends and enemies.The book's most striking aspect is the characterization of the enigmatic Cromwell who plays the game, with all cards held close to his chest. No less compelling are the other luminaries in the book - conniving Anne Boleyn; irascible Duke of Norlfolk; fanatical Thomas More; volatile King Henry, who nevertheless wins our liking; and, the charismatic, brilliant Wolsey.Wolsey is both Cromwell's friend and his mentor. The two men have much in common, but with one crucial difference - Cromwell succeeds where Wolsey could not. He succeeds a little too well. As his eminence grows, so does his ambition, or, is it the other way around? By the end of the book, the dauntless Cromwell has started soaring a little too close to the sun on waxen wings. The reader can only wait with foreboding for the promised sequel.
5 Excellent writing for a not too interesting time period for me.I really got caught up in the historical characters. Verydescriptive.
1 Maybe I will  try it again, it is on the list of 100 Books You Should Have Read .  It was just SO dry.
3 How many people can be named Thomas?  There are so many and every new male character seems to be named Thomas.  Although I wonder why I am reading this I do get drawn in to her characters and the story.  It is hard to follow on my Kindle as she speaks for the characters, changes the speaker without the advantage of a new line to indicate a new speaker.  It's a slow mover but her main speaker, Thomas Cromwell, is a thoroughly likable man.  The disease, poverty, conceited and self-centered royals makes me glad I live when and where I do.
1 Two problems made me dump this book:  1) There is no compelling plot or character growth to interest me as a reader, and 2) The odd writing style forced me to consciously keep tabs on who was speaking or thinking at each moment.In a story about Henry VIII's divorce, you'd expect passion and drama -- but somehow there was not enough to move this story along.  The choice of a non-royal micro-manager as a main character, while an interesting writing technique, simply bored me.  And the jumping back and forth between the inside of the main character's head and normal narrative -- while a very "new" style -- stopped the flow too much to be bothered with.  I enjoy the challenging syntax of poetry, and I love good literature, but as a reader, I could not find any benefit to this style of writing.  I usually love historical fiction about the Tudors, but this book just did not hold my interest at all. Whatever the criteria are for the awards it has won, reader's pleasure was not one of them.
2 Although seen from the perspective of Thomas Cromwell, a villain made a protagonist by authoress Hillary Mantel, we find here the same tedious antics of the Tudor court and city of London in the years between the mid 1520's and mid 1530's, when Anne Boleyn attracted the fancy of Henry VIII who was slowly willing to destroy Catholic and noble England to satisfy his misplaced sexual needs and more importantly his misunderstood dynastic needs.  It is a novel but accurate enough to be a history, neither of which is currently in short supply.  Heaven only knows why the book was written and why it is being read.The best line in the story is by someone who has spent time in Italy.  He says that were Queen Katherine of Aragon, Henry's unsuited wife, in Italy she would long since have lain in her cold grave.  The English do things differently from the Italians but the result is the same.
5 Bought this title--along with Bring Up the Bodies--for my mom's birthday. She reports that it was a very thoughtful (I think that meant time-consuming) read and she loved this telling of Cromwell's rise. Mom is now is eager to see the BBC adaptation starring Mark Rylance. I scored big points here!
4 It took me a month to read through this book and many a time I almost gave up on it: written in the present tense, with misused pronouns, hundreds of characters and many of them with four names used indiscriminately (for instance, Stephen, Gardiner, the Bishop, Winchester: all names used for the same character), even the most unfitting title of the book had me puzzled (did the author choose "Wolf Hall" because they are the last two words of the book?); all this, and the needlessly complicated phrasing makes this a very demanding book to read.  You will very quickly give up if you don't give this book your absolutely undivided attention, and don't mind re-reading paragraphs to understand where the author is leading you. But it's also wonderful and gripping, lyrical in places, and altogether fascinating!  Not recommended for lazy readers.
2 Too much .no no no nada  No more, and she could have used fewer words and had reached 1535 sooner.
5 So many other reviewers have taken pains to provide a brief synopsis of the the book and/or to clarify the historic facts [as they are known] that I direct you, dear reader, to those other reviews.I agree with the many comments pointing to the confusing number of characters, the unreliable use of the pronoun "HE," and the sheer tedious read that is required -- this is truly a novel which demands that its readers develop a conscious relationship with language.So it is not a 'dime-novel' which can be tossed down in a day or two and forgotten.  However, I do think I will remember this book more for its complexity than for its story.Then there is another BUT -- I do believe I have learned something, perhapse even experienced something of life in the 16th century.It is a worthwhile book.I did get tired of the sentence fragments.  Sometimes I just stopped reading to stare at a group of words arranged in the familiar shape of a sentence -- you know -- starts with a capital letter, ends with a period?  In places she just put down words on the page -- maybe not with verbs attached -- it just looks to me as if the author had made notes on index cards that got typed into the manuscript and kept as a kind of mental recall device so the author would remember what she intended to say at that point.Who knows?  Random words on a page -- strange verb tense and the odd use of pronouns -- well it was bound to win something wasn't it?But, I did love the title and I loved its sub-text meaning -- totally fits the history of that time and the people who lived the history.They were all a bunch of wolves roaming the country side seeking power in the halls of government.
5 I didn't read this book for a long time because I was throughly sick of reading about the Tudors but I finally ordered a sample and couldn't stop reading and ordered the book.  Fabulous character development and great dialog the author uses her sly wit to set this book apart.  Who thought the reformation could be this interesting.
5 If you want an insider's view of the court of Henry VIII and 16th century England, read this book! You feel like a participant in the intrigues.
5 I had to grow into this book, to become accustomed to the language, the flow, and the rhythm, but once I did I knew I was in the middle of a brilliantly told tale of subtly nuanced characters of the time of Henry VIII. It is truly enchanting, and I will immediately start over when I have finished.
5 The first in Mantel's series, this book is hard to put down -- and you'll definitely want to read her second book:  Bring Up the Bodies.  Just excellent...
5 I'm glad we read this.  I'm a fan of this period in history.  This book fleshed out Thomas Cromwell.  He was a vital person in the Tudor saga.
4 I liked the book, but found it difficult to follow. The author gives statements or actions without a clear indication of who is saying the words or doing the activity. I am not sure I will take the time to read her more current book. She creates a story based on reality but puts in quite a lot of fantasy about the characters.
3 I couldn't finish book, two many characters, confusing, genielogy tree to small to read. may try to finish sooner or later
1 i gave it 100 pages and i really worked at it, but oh geez this is boring stuff.......maybe it's not my genre, but i had the best intentions based on the reviews and awards.  UGH.
5 Oliver Cromwell was the destroyer of the Irish people. His holy war against the Celts sought to impose a Calvinist ascendancy to rule over the indigenous people of the island.His relative, Thomas Cromwell, brought the first violent strain of the reformation to England. A mercenary soldier and a suspected murderer, he reached the highest levels of Henry VIII's government. As Chancellor of England he would enrich himself and his king by raping the churches and monastaries. His enemies would be tortured and killed at his command. And, though he rose through the good offices of the "Royal Whore' Anne Boleyn, he betrayed her when he saw advantage in ridding Henry of an allegedly debauched queen on what many historians believe were false charges.With Thomas Cromwell as its central character, you might assume I'd find Wolf Hall tough going. But you would be wrong. Mantel ignores some modern scholarship to craft a Cromwell who is hardly the one dimensional evil doer that everyone from Thomas More, whom he executed, to Henry VIII who would later execute Crowell, would have us believe.I doubt that Cromwell was as rich a character as the protagonist Mantel, who won the Mann-Booker award for this novel, has created. But he is totally engrossing.
5 A super read, although at first I was confused by all the Thomases in the book!
3 This was a good book, well written, but hard to follow.  I enjoy history and learned some things biut I want to read this again to see if I missed anything
4 You can't deny the beauty of the writing, but it does drag on a bit.  Have to say, I've never liked Cromwell more.
3 This opus opens with a boy being beaten up by his sneaky father.  Fast forward to adulthood.  The boy, Thomas Cromwell, is now a lawyer and friend to Cardinal Wolsey, who is rapidly losing favor with Henry VIII, due to his inability to secure the annulment of Henry's marriage to Katherine of Aragon.  After Wolsey's demise, Cromwell becomes Henry's chief adviser, managing just about everything, including the annulment or the marriage and the execution of the stubborn Sir Thomas More.  The plague seizes Cromwell's wife and daughters, leaving him to launch a number of promising young men, including his son Gregory and nephew Richard.  Cromwell comes off as a hero--reasonable, witty, and clear-headed among a huge cast of lustful, misguided, and manipulative 16th century characters.  Cromwell, of course, leads the pack in the manipulation category but does so with understated flair and aboveboard tactics.  The author never lets us forget that Cromwell has succeeded in spite of the fact that he is a commoner, making his accomplishments all the more impressive.  My biggest beef with this book is the plethora of pronouns with an ambiguous antecedent.  I finally figured out that in most cases, "he" refers to Cromwell, even if I had no idea that "he" was even on the scene.  I found this apparently intentional device on the author's part to be extremely aggravating and time-consuming, as I found myself continually rereading dialog in an already overly long book.
2 I am struggling through this book because I have a personal rule that if I purchase a book, I must finish it. The story itself is interesting largely because the events are seen through the eyes and emotions of Thomas Cromwell and center around Henry VIII's plots and schemes to divorce Katherine of Aragon so that he can marry Anne Boleyn. This is an inherently fascinating period in English history. The first chapters of the book provide the reader with an intriguing summary of Cromwell's early life from the time that he runs away from Putney and his abusive father to the time that he returns to EnglandThat said I have to agree with the other reviewers who find the writing style extremely annoying. I suppose this is meant to be "artistic" but there are good reasons for the rules concerning antecedents in English. Half the time, the reader is left to reread portions of the text to determine who is speaking. And I lost count of the number of times that I read, "he, Cromwell,..." This is an imposition on even the most educated and patient reader.I really wanted to like this book because I was excited about the prospect of reading about this period of English history through the eyes of one of the principal characters and the reviews were extremely good. But the writing style is a serious impediment to sustained reading of this book. I will struggle through it, but I definitely will not be ordering Bring up the Bodies, the sequel to this book because of the writing style.
5 Historical fiction takes many forms, with a corresponding range in quality. Sometimes its primary appeal is its subject, rather than the writing. Or it may, as in the case of Nathaniel Hawthorne's "The Scarlet Letter," rise to the level of literature."Wolf Hall," by Hilary Mantel, falls into the latter category, which comes as no surprise. Mantel won Britain's Man Booker Prize in 2009.The novel explores part of the tumultuous reign of England's King Henry VIII, but the protagonist is not the lusty, heir-obsessed Henry, the zealously Catholic Thomas More, the ill-fated Anne Boleyn, or any of Henry's other wives.Rather, the central character is Thomas Cromwell, who rose from humble origins to become Henry's right-hand man, before being executed on trumped up treason and heresy charges in 1540. (History's more celebrated Cromwell - Oliver - who briefly overthrew the British monarchy in the 17th century, was descended from Thomas Cromwell's sister Catherine.)The Wikipedia entry on Thomas Cromwell says he has been portrayed in at least 14 movies and television series. Perhaps the most notable was Leo McKern's in the 1966 film, "A Man for All Seasons." If we have any impression of Cromwell, it generally is unflattering, thanks to characterizations of him as cunning, ruthless and blindly ambitious.Mantel's Cromwell is all of that, but much more: smooth-talking, observant, analytical, tireless, even charming, when it suits his purposes. We become privy to his troubled youth, his subsequent wanderlust, his photographic memory, his role as a devoted husband and father and the growth of his anti-Catholic views, as he comes to question the teachings and practices of the church even before Henry breaks with Rome in his zeal to marry Boleyn."His speech is low and rapid," Mantel tells us, "his manner assured; he is at home in courtroom or waterfront, bishop's palace or inn yard. He can draft a contract, train a falcon, draw a map, stop a street fight, furnish a house and fix a jury."When Cardinal Thomas Wolsey, the king's previous go-to guy and Cromwell's patron in the early going, speculates that Cromwell may later find himself working for the king, Wolsey good-naturedly tells Cromwell that Henry "will have to take you as you are, which is rather like one of those square-shaped fighting dogs that low men tow about on ropes. Not that you are without a fitful charm, Tom."Mantel's writing is lyrical and evocative. The chill in a cavernous room housing Henry's daughter, the princess Mary, is "like a ghost's ambassador." While hunting in the forest, a courtier warns Cromwell, "you may find yourself lost, without companions. You may come to a river which is not on a map. You may lose sight of your quarry, and forget why you are there. You may meet a dwarf, or the living Christ, or an old enemy of yours; or a new enemy, one you do not know until you see his face appear between the rustling leaves, and see the glint of his dagger."The key players in Henry's circle all come to life in "Wolf Hall." Thomas More, the scholar-statesman, oversees the torture of heretics and entertains dinner guests at his home in Latin, even though his wife Alice does not know the language. Wolsey is cosmopolitan and conniving, but devoted to his king. When Cromwell gives the self-absorbed and scheming Boleyn a gift of silver forks shortly before she becomes queen, "he hopes she will use them to eat with, not to stick in people." Henry emerges as autocratic and demanding, yet vulnerable and (at times) merciful as well.So too, Mantel offers a frighteningly compelling look at a world in which religious orthodoxy is paramount. Catholics and Protestants wage feverish, life-or-death battles over conflicting beliefs that send heretics to the stake or the ax. Tolerance and diversity are inconceivable.Various reviewers have described "Wolf Hall" as "brilliant," "startling" and "masterful." Each adjective is accurate. None is an exaggeration. This is a dazzlingly original novel, and although it is a work of fiction, it presents a believable portrait of a man of many parts who has been ill-treated by history.
5 ...rather like Mary Poppins, I'd say.Indeed, very little has been left unsaid on the topic of Hilary Mantel's Wolf Hall. Many readers and critics found the book absolutely compelling, as I did, and for many of the same reasons. As a political novel of 16th century England, it rings cunningly plausible to a lifetime student of politics (which - forgive an autobiographical digression - is how I make my living). As a psychological portrait, it captures in detailed, brilliantly wrought vignettes the interactions of many minds and points of view during a turbulent time in world history, when the bastions of received faith were under assault, mobs were in the streets or, in M&uuml;nster, at the ramparts, and the world, it seemed, was turning upside down. As a picture of the Tudor world and worldview (about which we already know a great deal, from many sources, including Thomas More himself, as both historian and novelist, Shakespeare, Marlowe, contemporary histories, letters, and so on), it has a kind of lived-in, thought-through, tactile quiddity, a thing-ness throughout (have you ever really thought about what happens to a human being when it is burned at the stake?). It struck me as an imaginative and plausible account of a monarch's obsession with the durability of his line and of the personalities at the center of Henry's dispute with Rome and parts of his own Court. And it is, above all, a deeply penetrating portrait of the complex human being at the center of this vortex, Thomas Cromwell, the agent of King Henry's break with Rome and a lion of the English Reformation.And this may be the finest, most satisfying novel I've read since David Mitchell's Cloud Atlas, another Man Booker finalist. I read a lot of readers' reviews before writing this one, and I marked them all "helpful" - particularly the negative ones, because they helped me understand that, for many, so-called "literary fiction" is a term of opprobrium, so much stuff and nonsense, an acquired taste, like Islay single malts, which literally disgust some whiskey drinkers and for others are the peak whiskey experience. Unlike David Mitchell's books, Wolf Hall is a "historical novel" and rooted in a reality Mantel was meticulous to observe - its characters are based on actual personages and Mantel's realization of them struck me as within the bounds of interpretive license (even if Cromwell comes off much better, and Thomas More, for example, much worse than Robert Bolt's "A Man for All Seasons" would lead millions to expect). Mantel's narrative structure does require, however, that the reader have some degree of  tolerance for ambiguity, abrupt transitions, irregular chronology, and a few other narrative or literary devices - like Mantel's 3rd odd but apt 3rd-person singular "he," used in a particular mood and style as her designated reference to Thomas Cromwell, which I thought brilliant in putting Cromwell at the center of the story without having to repeat his name or some other alternative over and over, many times on each page (moreover, a unusually large number of Mantel's central characters have the Christian name "Thomas"--Wolsey, More, Norfolk, Seymour, Wriothesley ("Call-Me-Risely"), etc.But in all, I found this splendidly written, and I marked countless passages (with Post-Its: I can't bring myself to mark up hardcover books) as particular windows into the human heart and psyche, and I'm greatly looking forward to reading every word Hilary Mantel has published.
2 Once upon a time I swore that I would never again read a Mann Booker winner,and I have stuck to this for several years until two weeks ago when a friend mentioned that her book club was about to attack the 700 pages of Wolf Hall.So, armed with this information I spoke with two book sellers I know and they both said this was a fantastic book and I should get into it. So I did.I read the entire thing concerning Thomas Cromwell, Thomas More, Henry the Eight and Anne Boleyn and the split from Rome.This book is really well written and the information concerning the history around the main characters is fascinating, but for me it started to drag after the first one hundred pages.The positives for me were, as above, the historical facts of the characters, the fact that there was not one tedious description of the english countryside or any detail concerning the attire of the characters.There are some marvellous lines - I have never read of a " river creeping".The biggest negative was that I had to keep re-reading paragraphs because Mantel keeps referring to "he" and I kept loosing whether "he" was Cromwell, More or other characters.This is a great novel and probably deserves the "Booker" but it just wasn't for me, not because it was no good rather I just didn't like it.
5 Young Thomas Cromwell, a sometimes-serving boy in the house where Thomas More studies, is driven by his restless curiosity to inquire of the reading More, "What is in that great book?" Like Hamlet to Polonius, More puts him off with the reply, "Words, words, just words."Cromwell never forgets the snub; much later, interviewing the doomed More in the Tower, he brings up the incident. More has no memory of it -- as Cromwell reflects, he never even saw me coming. It's a mistake many will make as Cromwell shoulders and insinuates himself to the right hands first of Cardinal Wolsey, then of King Henry himself. If More is the immovable "man for all seasons," Cromwell is the mutable yet inexorable "man for all situations."A great historical novel, Wolf Hall is all about history; at a deeper level, it is about memory itself, as it reels out and weaves about in Cromwell's mind. That mind is penetrated to the core by a third person POV as intimate as first person, but given that one step back that could be construed as Cromwell's own ironic and mercilessly honest self-observation. Mantel's conceit of rarely using Cromwell's name, of allowing him to self-refer as "he" instead, has drawn some criticism. I found that the conceit works in deepening the penetration of the third person. It's a bold move, definitely capable of confusing the reader at first. But once I realized that any "he" without a clear antecedent was probably Cromwell, the difficulty cleared up.Richness and aptness of description are other marks of the book's greatness, and suit Cromwell to the ground, for he rarely misses the important detail in his surroundings or in other men's -- and women's -- faces. The pace of the novel is therefore slower, though not from lack of movement or interest. It's the sort of book that begs to be read slowly, savored, contemplated. There's so much to see in this "memory machine" of Cromwell's brain; though he often wonders about a wooden memory machine being devised by Guido Camillo in France, he already has a sufficient wonder in his own skull.A telling passage occurs about two-thirds of the way through the book. After one of Cromwell's dinner parties, the astronomer Nikolaus Kratzer begins drawing:"He draws the sun and the planets moving in their orbits according to the plan he has heard of from Father Copernicus. He shows how the world is turning on its axis, and nobody in the room denies it. Under your feet you can feel the tug and heft of it, the rocks groaning to tear away from their beds, the oceans tilting and slapping at their shores, the giddy lurch of Alpine passes, the forests of Germany ripping at their roots to be free. The world is not what it was when he and Vaughan were young; it is not what it was even in the cardinal's day."The modern world begins, with an appreciation of constant change and of the need to acknowledge and work with it. For More, "Words, words" are not "just words." They are anchors in the dizzy race of reality. They make the tiny patch of philosophical ground that he clings to until the end. Cromwell, it seems, clings only to the necessity for movement, for adaptation. This makes him the man on the threshold of the modern. But, realist though he is, Cromwell can still yearn for a Utopia in which the expedient act is also the moral one: "I truly believe," he tells More, "I should be a better man if the weather were better. I should be a better man if I lived in a commonwealth where the sun shone and the citizens were rich and free. If only that were true, Master More, you wouldn't have to pray for me nearly as hard as you do.""How you can talk," More responds, and it's back to the old bone between them. Words, words, just words.The words collected in Wolf Hall, however, are a delight and a revelation. I will reread this book many times, though not before I devour the next installment in the story, Bring Up the Bodies.
1 I am no scholar and I hated history in school.  This book brings back to me exactly why.  It seems to me the author is just laying out what happened in each arena (church, Royal Court, etc) and is trying to bring it to life with the actual conversations that would have gone on in each, in order to show the motivations and consequences of each upon the other.  This could be fascinating, and possibly is, to those who are very familiar with the people and events of the times.  But with only a broad idea of what was happening, I found it was history telling one slow conversation at a time, with no overall plan or direction, and as others have commented, it seems to me to just be an academic exercise.  I have read many historical novels which have been very interesting and enlightening but I just couldn't slog through this and admitted defeat about 25% of the way through.  Too dry, too slow, too clever for me.
4 Something about this novel really troubled me, but I have to admit I enjoyed it enormously.  To me it was a great read.  I regularly read books about Tudor history and maybe because of that had no difficulty distinguishing who the characters were without looking at the character lists at the front of the book. The use of the pronoun "he" sometimes confused me momentarily.  I would have liked it for the author to have been a little clearer at times about which "he" she was referring to.  But overall, I thought the prose style was brilliant.My problem, if that is the word, with this novel is with the historical accuracy of the portrait presented of Thomas Cromwell.  The entire story is told form his point of view and he is highly likable--humane, witty, ambitious but not fiendishly so.  We first meet him as a fifteen year old beaten almost to death by his father.  He is sympathetic from the beginning as he bravely sets out to escape his miserable home situation.  My heart broke for him a little when he had to leave his beloved dog behind.  The guy loves dogs!  Many years later, when we meet him again as a prosperous man in his forties, he always has a little dog named after the one he left.  He is a good husband and a kind father, grief-stricken when members of his family die from the plague. Hilary Mantel made me love the guy.  What a wonderful character she created!But...There is a point in which he is trying to get Thomas More to sign an oath, acknowledging Henry VIII as the head of the church in England, supplanting the pope.  We know that More has burned heretics, and, on a more personal level, treats members of his own family with contempt.  As a reader I was rooting for Cromwell.  Why can't the tiresome, bigoted More sign the oath?  Then I sort of stepped back.  More's historical record is not an appealing one; he vigorously persecuted Protestants as heretics, when he could just as well have left them in peace.  But--okay, here is the but--Thomas Cromwell wrote a loyalty oath that people like More and other devout Catholics, could not sign in conscience.  More and Cardinal Fisher were executed as a consequence.  Certain monks who did not sign were publicly butchered for it; they suffered absolutely horrific, torturous deaths.  Whether or not we find anything else admirable about More, he was condemned for upholding his deepest religious values.  In the novel, Cromwell tells More that he would leave him alive and let him alone if he were king.  He is, in other words, just following orders?  In fact, Cromwell is participating in something absolutely atrocious.  That seems to be glossed over.  I say "seems to be" because I was not sure whether the writer wanted us as readers to think, "Look at this awful thing Cromwell, nice as he is, is up to his neck in," or if we were just supposed to go on thnking of him in more or less glowing terms.My favorite Tudor period figure is Elizabeth I, who was tolerant as far as she was able to be and survive, and who famously said she wanted no windows into men's souls.  Cromwell helped create windows into men's souls, just as More did.  This novel ends before Anne Boleyn is condemned--in what is generally considered a frame up orchestrated by Cromwell, which sucked in innocent people--and before the dissolution of the monasteries gets into full, brutal swing, and before the Pilgrimage of Grace and its horrific aftermath.  But with More's condemnation we see the writing on the wall.  And the historical record is clear--many people suffered and died because of governmental actions that Cromwell either instigated or vigorously carried out.I wonder what the promised sequel will be like.  Is this the tragic story of how a man with many good qualities (and I believe Cromwell did fit that description) is led to do awful acts?  Or is this some kind of ahistorical whitewash?  The thing is, based on this novel, I can't tell.  In my view, a truly great historical novel needs to be fundamentally true to history.  It should not shroud unpleasant truths.  Maybe I've got an unfashionable liking for moral clarity, but I can't give this novel a 5, even though in many ways it is terrific.  The portrait of Cromwell is just too prettified.  I do plan to read the sequel.
3 This is in many ways a good book; it is certainly an interesting one, about an important period in history. I do wonder if the historical evidence supports Cromwell as an early, covert advocate of Protestantism.However, the book simply includes too much material of small relevance to the advancement of the story, particularly in the middle section. It would be much improved if it were cut to 400 pages.
4 A bit hard to get into, but worth the time.  It got better, and I thought she is a good writer.
5 a fantastic read on many levels: beautiful writing, evocative of the smells, the weather, the feel of the times. Makes you want to know more about the period and its circumstances. Simple but not simplistic view of the dilemma of the age: obey the Pope and the Church and run the risk of a return of the civil wars, or overturn the establishment and hope for the best. In the event, Anne's belly gave England its greatest monarch, but how was Henry to know? A tremendous insight into the dilemmas of power, as seen from Crowell's perspective. Every single line in the book is helpful in understanding what power is and how it is exercised, even to this day. And how it damns those who wield it.
5 I could not put the book down.I read it so fast I had to go at it for a second time.Excellent research,very good writing.More fascinating because it gives the idea that it was not written for Hollywood.
5 Hillary is the best writer of historical fiction that I have ever read. I first read &#34;Bring Up the Bodies,&#34; then took up &#34;Wolf Hall.&#34; Her writing style is so unique and beautiful, and her insight into human character fascinating. An essential read.
4 I like English history, though I am not a student of it.  I have read a number of biographies of historical figures, and watched numerous movies and television programs that address various periods and stories from English history.  Still, I found myself getting confused on a number of occasions trying to follow who was who, and what was the political problem being dealt with.  I do understand why this novel won the Man Booker prize as the way of telling the story is very unique.  Have yet to finish the novel which is unusual for me.
3 Wolf Hall is a fictional take on the rise and corruption of Thomas Cromwell, a councilor of Henry VIII and the person largely responsible for many of the legislations separating England from the Catholic Church.  As someone with a keen interest in British history, especially the Tudor period, I was excited about reading this book, but came out of the experience somewhat disappointed.The book is written from Cromwell's POV and focuses on a particularly sticky point in the history of England, when Henry VIII badly wanted and England badly needed a male heir to assure the line of succession.  Having failed to provide, Henry's first wife Katherine is pushed aside for Anne Boleyn.  But in the 16th century even the King of England could not openly defy the Catholic Church.  Most of the book follows this plot, as allegiances shift and lives are destroyed for the King's pleasure.But anyone who has read the history knows it was a wide ranging and chaotic time, and so is this novel.  It is spread thin and confusing.  So hard is it to keep up with the cast of characters in fact, Mantel felt the need to list them at the beginning and give us two royal family trees just to keep things straight.  Yet, as helpful as these tools are, Mantel still seems to go to great lengths to confuse us by utilizing the personal pronoun `he' in a unique way (though we soon learn that unless the `he' in question is obviously someone else, it is always Cromwell) and by using the various names of the nobility, i.e. Charles Brandon, Duke of Suffolk, the duke, etc. all to mean the same person.The characterizations are vividly drawn, which is impressive given the vast array of players.  But we care little for them.  The major players are all wrapped up in their own personal quests for power.  Some are overdone, like Thomas More, who comes off like a villain in a Dicken's novel.  There are moments when we care a little for Cromwell.  As the POV character, we see more of his emotions, and scenes when he recalls his wife and children are effective.  And there are some minor characters, caught up and crushed in the wheels of history, who rend our hearts a little.  But these moments are spread out over the wide landscape of the book, and never catch for long.So it is that while Wolf Hall is an expertly written, ambitious work, it fell short for me.  Many times I had to force myself to read on.  My momentum was not just stopped by confusing character attributions and unsympathetic characters though.  Many scenes, especially early on, don't move, are devoid of tension.  Since the reader will likely know the outcome of the plot, it is especially important in historical novels that a good tension is kept throughout to keep the reader engaged.  I felt Mantel failed in this regard.  Having to force your way through a good majority of a 500+ page book is not a pleasant reading experience.  Things picked up a bit from about page 300 or so, but by then my opinion had been formed.Thus, I would say that if you're interested in British history, give it a shot.  It's well-written enough that you could enjoy good chunks of it.  But if you don't care about the history, then skip it.  I don't think it would be engaging enough for anyone without an interest in the subject.
2 Who are the judges for the Booker prize? This was slow depressing and not worth $9.99. I will wait till Bringing is less than $3.00 to buy it.
5 Fabulous read.  Even if you're not a 14th century England fan, it is a terrific story with fantastic characters.
5 I found Hilary Mantel's portrait of Thomas Cromwell to be very compelling. He's a very decent man in his personal life. However, he's willing to do questionable things for the sake of his career. It's hard to hold this against him, though, because he's merely reacting to the conditions of his world and using the resources he has to make the best of his situation.The historical setting feels very real; it is made more real by the fact that Cromwell is a character that modern career-oriented people can empathize with. I found it easy to place myself in his position.
2 I asked for this book as a Christmas gift because I read some rave reviews of it. Turns out, it wasn't nearly as good as I was led to believe.Wolf Hall is set during the reign of Henry VIII around the time Anne Boleyn hit the scene (how could you go wrong with that?). The story is essentially told from the perspective of Thomas Cromwell. I didn't know much about him before reading this book, so I enjoyed getting to know him a bit. Cromwell was a pretty interesting character who rose from nothing to become the king's right hand man - just about unheard of in a time when title and pedigree meant everything. The book made me want to learn more about Cromwell (I hit Wikipedia as soon as I finished the book), but I found the writing style really difficult to get used to. The story comes from Cromwell's perspective, but it's all written in the third person. Normally this wouldn't a problem, except Mantel overuses "he" and its difficult to sort out who "he" is referring to. There were a lot of men in this book and I finally figured out that "he" almost always refers to Cromwell. Mantel also leaves a number of things unsaid in this book and you just kind of have to piece together what happened without her coming out and saying it.On top of that, I found the pace a little slow. The book really only covers a few years and it felt like it took too many pages for anything to really happen. This could be reflective of the slower pace of life during the Tudor times or it could be a product of how long it took me to finish the book (It wasn't a tough read - I just had a lot going on and couldn't finish it as quickly as I would have liked) or it could just be the author's style. Regardless, I found it a little frustrating. The topic was interesting and I felt the book should moved a lot quicker.Bottom Line: An intriguing subject which sparked a new interest, but the writing style got in the way of the story. Two and a half stars.
1 This book won the 2009 Booker Prize? I can't believe it.  It starts with a fight between a son and an abusive father  that is absolutely unbelievable, I can't even place which century we are in. The writing is slow, boring, unbelievable and inherently amateurish. The writer is a stupid, semi-educated, barely-literate English woman. This is a book of the lowest category.TUDORGAY-> And Enid Blyton's Noddy series is beyond you!Uncle Atkins -> Several times!!! It is the spell-checker, you old fool! Maybe you are on Atkins diet which causes high BP and diminished eye-sight. Go and join a night-school to get some basic education on how to behave like a human being..no manners at all!T. Price -> Are you related to that third-class Brit Model Katie Price? At least, you talk as if you share the same IQ? As someone said "A little knowledge is a dangerous thing" applies to you.This is indeed a milestone ( reaching 100). My thanks to all who voted against my review. I never knew that path to truth could be so joyful. The writer is an idiot and those who read/liked it are double-idiots!
1 I love & have studied this time period in history most of my adult life yet I could not follow the storyline. Since I am on the road everyday for my job I have listened to hundreds of audio books and this is one of the worst. I suffered through the whole thing hoping it would get better and because of all the great press. Before you waste your time and money, notice how many BAD reviews this book got besides the good ones.BPRID
1 Price for the Kindle version the same as hard cover version? That will not work in the Kindle community.
1 Sure, it is a great story.  But the way it is written drives me nuts.  Firstly, the author is jumping around at different point in Thomas' life.  He is young or he is middle aged, and I can't tell WHEN a particular scene takes place.  She provides some hints, but only if one knows Tudor history well.  Secondly, her use of pronouns is so bad that it is well nigh impossible for me to tell whether or not Thomas is doing the talking or he is the one being talked to.  It is very confusing and I have to read passages several times to figure it out.  Oh, there are too many Thomas' in the book.  I am sure she could have come up with some innocent literary device to differentiate them.
1 Was this writer being paid by the word?  I knew the writing was bad from the very first page, which includes the sentence: "He hops on one foot, as if he's dancing."  Is that how people danced then?  Does the dancing comparison enhance the reader's appreciation of the action?  I don't think so.  A few pages on, and we get the description of a dog with "round innocent eyes shining at him like alien moons."  Say what?Those are small examples of the clunky and stilted exposition that characterizes this work.  When it comes to the dialogue, it gets immeasurably worse.  As others have noted, the use of pronouns, and even quotation marks, is sloppy and inconsistent to the point of unreadability.  The actual dialogue itself is choppy and vaguely anachronistic.This book is a mess.
4 I enjoy this book very much.  Historical accuracy and a lively writing style make it enjoyable to learn more about this historic time.
4 Wolf Hall is a highly acclaimed historical novel about Thomas Cromwell's early career first working for Wolsey and then for Henry VIII, engineering the rise of Anne Boleyn as Queen. Mantel brings various historical characters to vivacious life, expertly highlighting their virtues and vices. Her lyrical prose sweeps the reader into the story. I loved this book and am eager to start Bring up the Bodies, the second book in the trilogy. However, I'll note for the sake of potential readers: this book is heavy reading and has a unique writing style which many people find confusing. I listened to the audiobook, which was particularly difficult to follow because of Mantel's unique use of pronouns. Although Simon Slater's performance is exceptional, I think the physical book may be easier to follow. Knowledge of the events described is not necessary for enjoyment of the book, but would greatly enhance it.
4 This novel isn't for every one, but I really enjoyed it.  It focuses on Thomas Cromwell who ran away to the French army to escape his abusive blacksmith father.  The mis-treatment he endured helped to toughen him up and served
5 In spite of it being a novel, I learned a lot of history of this age of England.  It is not a quick read.  In fact, it is often difficult to determine who is speaking.  A friend helped by suggesting, when you don't know who "he" is, assume Thomas Cromwell.  It has in turns some funny dialogue, and naturally, very sad events.
2 Hilary Mantel subverts the views the general public has of some of the great figures of Henry VIII's time.  Wolsey at the time of his fall is shown as an attractive, gentle and stoical figure; Sir Thomas More - bigoted, personally present when suspected heretics are tortured in his dungeons, treating his wife with wounding contempt - is far from saintly (though he was prepared to die for his own faith: the several scenes in which he makes this clear to his interrogators are among the best and most powerful in the book).  Cromwell himself is presented in a much more favourable and human light than conventional accounts have attributed to him: affectionate head of a household full of nephews, nieces and wards; genuinely loyal to Wolsey even after his fall; cautious, self-controlled, blandly ignoring the frequent insulting reminders by the nobles and by Henry of his low-born origin;  making himself apparently indispensable to the King, but shown as mostly more schemed against than scheming (or at least, if he does scheme, it is - except in the case of the Maid of Kent - not shown to us here: he simply carries out the King's wishes with efficiency - and of course with immense profit, both for him and for his master); less committed to the current orthodoxy and more inclined to mercy - up to a point - than the more fanatical of his colleagues.There are some good portraits: of the unpredictable Henry VIII, a creature painfully besotted for years by Anne Boleyn, ruthless and sinister, but neurotic, superstitious, swayed by those around him (until he turns on them) and never quite certain of himself; of Anne Boleyn, hard, calculating and vindictive; of Anne's brutish uncle Norfolk, crude and choleric to the point of caricature; the fiercely defiant teenage Mary Tudor.  The book is loaded, indeed overloaded, with a mass of detailed knowledge of the period.  Hilary Mantel can keep track of who is who in her huge cast of characters, how they are related to each other, who has been betrothed to whom only to be forced to marry someone else; but it is hard for the reader to follow her, even with the cast of characters and the family trees (neither of them entirely adequate) she provides at the beginning of the book.  She is steeped not only in the politics, the intrigues and the terrible executions of the time,  but also in the way people lived, what they ate and what they wore.  From time to time there are striking poetic similes.But I cannot understand how this book could have won so much praise from discerning critics and won the Man Booker Prize to boot: it is, I think, so badly written.  Because Cromwell is the central character, we are supposed to take for granted that the pronoun `he' often refers to him when grammatically it might refer to the last-named person in the previous sentence - a willful, pointless and anti-syntactical mannerism in someone who is acclaimed as a master novelist. Nor is it her only idiosyncrasy: direct speech is sometimes in inverted commas, sometimes not. The style is staccato and hardly ever flows. Sometimes, increasingly so as the book proceeds,  the writing is so elliptical as to leave its meaning obscure.  She uses the Historic Present throughout because, she says in an interview at the end of the book, she wanted to capture "the immediacy of experience"; but the unremitting use of all these mannerisms through 650 pages is exceedingly wearisome.Nor can I see any artistic point in the irritatingly unchronological order of the first four chapters: the opening chapter, set in 1500, deals with Cromwell's brutalized childhood and his running away to sea; the second, set in 1529, deals with the day when Wolsey is dismissed as Chancellor; the third goes back to 1527; and the fourth, dealing with the period 1521 to 1529, fills in the gap between the first and second chapter, gives an immense amount of historical information - some of it in a moderately indigestible form and of questionable necessity, as well as straying into the mythological past of Britain.Only from the fifth chapter onwards do we get a chronological sequence and a sense of events moving, very slowly, forwards until the book at long last comes to an end in 1535: Anne Boleyn still has her head on her shoulders, but Thomas More has just lost his.  It will be five more years before Cromwell will lose his own; but at the end of this first volume he is more powerful than ever.I shall not embark on the promised sequel.
5 Wolf Hall is a magnificent achievement, in the first rank of historical fiction.  Hilary Mantel protrays Thomas Cromwell as the most pragmatic and principled of men, steering his way through perilous times with integrity and courage.  In keeping with the adage that good deeds seldom go unpunished, she elicits immense sympathy for both Cromwell and his mentor, Cardinal Wolsey, two of Henry VIII's most loyal servants who both came to bad ends at the monarch's hands.  And it's certainly about time someone brought Saint Thomas More (who also came to a bad end) down off his pedestal; the more you read about the English Reformation the less appealing the "man for all seasons" becomes.But those pronouns!  Nearly every time you encounter "he said" it's a speed bump, figuring out who said.  It's a credit to Ms. Mantel's narrative skill that we readily forgive her.  This novel is surely the best and most readable Man/Booker winner in many a year.
5 Or should that be Cromwell pleases?A fabulous, involving, dynamic read. For once a literary historical novel worthy of that name. And for once a Booker winner that someone other than the judges likes.I deliberately read slowly, and paused to savour passages, hoping to extend my reading experience as long as possible. The actual writing is wonderful, the style adding to the pleasure of the story without distracting from what is happening. Wolf Hall provides a refreshing perspective on an historical period already well represented at all literary and history-writing levels, and leaves one with a renewed interest in the Tudors and the English Reformation.
2 Wolfe Hall is written sumptuously, obviously the pen of a master.  However, the book is ultimately a tremendous (and confusing) bore.  I finally gave up at the half-way point, a rarity for this avid reader.
5 This is a brilliant book. Henry VIII continues to capture our imaginations as the books, television shows and movies never seem to stop coming out. What I love about this book is the shift in focus to Thomas Cromwell - an amazing character and terrific focal point. The writing is just brilliant - the wit and sarcasm had me re-reading lines. I loved the presentation of Cromwell's relationships with his family, Wolsey, More and the royals at court. A book I'm proud to own and highly recommend.
1 This book is enjoyed by many people, but it just wasn't my kind of story.  We all have likes and dislikes and this one didn't make my like list.  It's all personal taste!
5 WOLF HALL is brilliant in every way.  Hilary Mantel's extraordinary book takes us into the mind and heart of Thomas Cromwell [1485-1540], one of the greatest statesmen of the era of Henry VIII and an architect of the idea of the modern administrative state.  Mantel, one of our best writers, has an amazingly versatile writing style, which she uses with dazzling skill.  Her command of the period is first-rate (in fact, the one quibble that I thought I had went away after I read her "author's note" at the book's close).  Her book is a work of art very much like the ultra-detailed paintings of the English and Northern European Renaissance, dazzling both as a whole and point-by-point.In essence, the core story of the book is the rise of a man from very humble origins (he is the son of a tradesman, and his father is a cruel and abusive lout).  He has traveled widely and learned many things -- he can do everything from drafting a will to setting a bone to gutting an opponent in a knife-fight.  At the beginning, he serves Cardinal Thomas Wolsey, who is the de facto leader of the government under Henry VIII; Cromwell is trying to help his master navigate the dangerous waters of Henry's s need for an heir, which prompts his desire to set aside his marriage to Katharine of Aragon (who has given him a sickly daughter, Mary (eventually Queen Mary, known as "Bloody Mary" in popular memory), and a plethora of stillborn births) and and his hunt for someone who can give him an heir -- all of that in the face of the Roman Catholic Church's ban on divorce.  After Wolsey's fall, Cromwell somehow not only lands on his feet but becomes Henry's right-hand man, engineers the process by which Henry breaks from Rome, sets up the Church of England with himself as its head, annuls his marriage to Katharine and marries Anne Boleyn, who gives him a daughter (eventually Queen Elizabeth I).  The novel ends abruptly, with Cromwell at the apex of his power.  She promises a sequel that will complete the story.We want historical novels to plunge us into a world different from our own while enabling us to understand that world and the people who inhabit it.  We want not a series of familiar puppet-figures parroting their famous lines on cue, but portraits of real human beings with strengths and failings, beset by ambitions and lusts and needs and dreads.  We want to understand why issues that would not plague any of us for more than a second can have an entire world up in arms.  Mantel not only gives us all of this -- she makes it look easy.
3 If you are into the English Thomas's this is an interesting read.  Not a quick thriller but historically interesting.  Mantel does some clever work with letting the reader &#34;see&#34; what's happening.  Its okay but lending library material.
5 This is a delicious book, voluptuous, engaging, compelling, entertaining, and beautifully, beautifully written. Immerse yourself in this not-to-be missed novel.
4 I don't read much fiction, but the good reviews attracted me to this one. Being a college professor, much of what I read is motivated by what the information in the book will contribute to my classes. This novel delivered. It conveys a really authentic picture of those times. And, although lacking 'action', I found that my interest grew as I read and that my concern for Thomas Cromwell increased. It's a good read for a winter night.
5 This retelling of Henry VIII's story through the eyes of Cromwell is truly special and one of the most engrossing, captivating books I have ever read. So glad to hear that there is now a sequel that continues the story.
5 I have read about the Tudors.  I had not heard much of Thomas Cromwell.  With the extraordinary use of flashback, Ms. Mantel tells of the rise if Thomas.  A smart man, brilliant in business and law, he was aware that he was not of the noble class and knew he was making enemies as he climbed higher in esteem in the eyes of Henry VIII.  A worthy tale told so well.
2 I am a great fan of reading in general but I find this book to be stifling; I have not finished it yet although I have it for over a month and a half, but i'm not giving up yet. It almost requires note-taking and a list of characters next to the Kindle and, thank goodness, the author did include a cast of characters and family trees; I almost feel the need to print these as reading aides. The several chapters I did read have good stories but there is much effort involved in slogging through the reading.If you enjoy a long slow dense read, then this book is just for you!
5 Hilary Mantel's Booker prize winner "Wolf Hall (WH)" dazzled critics but left many readers frustrated and bewildered. Yet another misjudgment by an erratic award committee perhaps ? Thought so...but after reading it, have to say, emphatically NOT SO. WH is without doubt a difficult tome of a book to get through, not helped by the author's already widely discussed idiosyncratic style of writing. Its treatment of the historically underwritten character of Thomas Cromwell is simply staggering in its breadth and scope, its texture so rich and complex, the book demands the kind of close reading and concentration most readers don't expect to give to a novel, hence the strongly divergent reactions to the book as between expert and casual readers. Me, I was forewarned by fellow readers of their difficulties, so was well armed and prepared for the bumpy ride.Don't be put off by the by-now-infamous "He/he" problem, by the huge cast of characters including several Thomases and Marys, often confusingly present or not present but referred to in the same scene, or by the occasional sudden forays into the past via dream sequences, etc. Get used to Cromwell being mostly the "He" on the page since he appears in nearly every scene. Refer as often as you need to the genealogical Tudor family tree and the dramatis personae chart at the front of the book and I promise you, you don't have to be a genius to get it 99% of the time.Mantel's narrative isn't linear or plot driven. Apart from Cromwell, the action isn't focused on specific major characters or dramatic events so the reader has to undertake his own quiet rolling evaluation to make sense of developments that reveal the true natures of different personalities. The author expects her readers to put in quite a bit of hard work to savor the full depth of her brand of historical fiction. Through well grounded research and her own powerful imagination, she humanizes the person of Cromwell by filling in the gaps in our knowledge of him and in the process breathes life into this rather one dimensional mental portrait we have of the man from popular sources such as "A Man For All Seasons", where the morally upright Thomas More loses his head but retains his integrity against the cunning political machinations of Thomas Cromwell. There is a late prison encounter between More and Cromwell that reminded me very much of the fictional meeting between Mary Queen of Scots and Elizabeth I (as portrayed by Vanessa Redgrave and Glenda Jackson in the movie "Mary Queen of Scots") where the English Queen promises to spare the life of her Scottish rival if she were to confess her crime. See the lasting hold of popular history on our imagination ?In Mantel's hands, the path charting the unlikely rise of Thomas Cromwell, from blacksmith's son to lawyer and eventually chief minister of Henry VIII, is a fascinating premise for a great discovery. Forever the outsider and derided for his low birth by the likes of Norfolk and Suffolk, is it any wonder that talent and an astute grasp of political expediency should take him so close to where the power lies ? Mantel explains in her interview at the back of the book that she chose to write in the present tense so as not to prejudge motives and outcomes, a brilliant technique that has added immeasurably to our own journey of discovery. Mantel's Cromwell is unknowable, as he is to himself.In my humble opinion, "Wolf Hall" is one of the strongest Booker prize winners in the history of the award and I suspect many book critics would consider placing it in the shortlist for the "Booker of Bookers" award rivaling even Salman Rushdie's "Midnight's Children". Great modern literature to be read and re-read by serious book lovers.
5 As a huge lover of history and particularly this era I became an enormous Phillipa Gregory fan, when she finished with the Tudors I was distraught, who else could ever bring them back to life again with such pure scope and imaganiation? As it turns out Hilary Mantel pulled it off with Wolf Hall. What a book, what a writer, I could see the breath of the horses in the cold mornings. A truly fabulous well written escape into another time, color me a fan, and in case she reads her Amazon reviews, well in the words of Oliver Twist, more please!
2 I had such hopes for this book. It is set during the time of King Henry VIII, whom we all know was an interesting character in English history. The main character and narrator of the book is Thomas Cromwell, about whom there has been much speculation. Other main characters include Anne Boleyn, Thomas More, and Queen Katherine. I went into this book expecting the best, but I was sorely let down on every front. Wolf Hall was an exercise in disappointment.First of all, I have to say that the writing was of a literary quality. I have no doubts that Hilary Mantel has a strong grasp of the English language, which is not something I can say about some authors I've read. Her only stylistic flaw was the tendency to put little artsy cliffhangers at the end of each section. I got the feeling that she didn't want to end a section without putting something that sounded either meaningful, artistic, or foreboding. While that can be a good technique when used sparingly, it came off feeling very contrived to me, like she was trying a little too hard. By the time I got to the middle of the book, which is a good 600 pages long, I was over it.While Mantel has an excellent grasp of the English language, she falls short in writerly craft. The main problem with this book was its lack of both character development and plot. First, the plot. I got to the end of the book not really sure what the point was. Quite frankly, I was expecting there to be more pages, because I didn't feel like the book had gone anywhere or come to any kind of conclusion yet. That is not a feeling I like. There was no climax, no conclusive event, nothing that tied together all the disparate happenings throughout the book. I felt like I was reading a series of events rather than a novel.That would have been fine with me, had the characters made up for it. I don't need a plot-driven book if there is enough character development to make it character-driven. Sadly, this book fails on all fronts when it comes to characters. Our narrator, Thomas Cromwell, is so nebulous that he almost doesn't have a character to develop. His defining traits consist of a willingness to please the people he works for, a gift for business and diplomacy, and a tendency to treat his underlings well. That's what we start with at the beginning of the book, and that's what we're left with at the end. I had trouble believing he had aged at all throughout the course of the novel simply because he changed so little. Sadly, all the characters in the book are relatively similar to him, if not in character traits, than in voice. Though they are described as being very different, I had trouble distinguishing between characters. While their political leanings may have been different, there was hardly a difference between the voices of Thomas More, Anne Boleyn, or any other character. Mantel should take note that dialogue without tags or quotation marks (which is a device I actually like when used correctly) only works if the characters are distinct enough not to need them. Sadly, this was not the case in Wolf Hall.There were a few things I liked about this book. Like I said, the writing itself was not bad, which is always a positive thing. I enjoyed that Mantel gave a fresh perspective on some very tired historical figures. I can't tell you how many saintly depictions of Thomas More I've read in my day, so it was nice to see him in a different (read: heartless and heretic-burning) light. Still, this book was mostly a let-down. It was, at best, mediocre in every category. In my opinion, Wolf Hall should not have beat The Children's Book for the Booker prize, and I do not recommend it.Rating: 2No character development, very little plot, mediocre overall. Not recommended.
5 This was one of the most difficult books I have read in a long time. I was at first intimidated by the size but once started, even though I found it heavy, I could not put it down. I had to read it slowly because of a combination of the complex characters, the intrigue in King Henry's court, the struggles of the people behind the scenes (though not quite as many were key players) and the dialogue. Especially confusing as some dialogue did not have quotation marks so I wasn't sure sometimes. When I was finished, I found myself wanting more. I think part of the slowness was also trying to savour every line, every passage, every page. Definitely worthy of the Booker Prize.
3 My favorite historical fiction writers create a dynamic protagonist - either by adding imaginative detail to a real figure (Sandra Gulland) or inventing a fictitious individual who seems to weave seamlessly into the historical fabric (Dorothy Dunnett) - and then use that man or woman to tell (or retell) a moving tale. Hilary Mantel takes the first step brilliantly, with a compelling main character and lush literary portrayal of Henry VIII (the one who thwarted the Pope in throwing over his wife Catherine for Anne Boleyn) and his England. Yet I still can't figure out why people rave about this book. She took 600 pages to establish her setting, leading man, and surrounding cast. At the risk of needing a SPOILER ALERT, nothing happens! Or maybe it's more accurate to say that a lot happens; just nothing particularly gratifying for the reader. Maybe if I had all the time in the world or a deep interest in pre-Elizabethan England I'd have a different perspective. As it is, I need more bang (interpersonal action) for my buck (precious reading time).
1 I love Tudor history, and I love historical fiction. However, I found this book frustrating. The pronouns are constantly wrong (stylistic?? maybe, but certainly very confusing) and the characters were so flat to me that I couldn't even figure out the speakers based on context. It's also strangely misogynistic for a female writer. . . the women are even flatter than the paper-thin male characters, and the author erases the complexities we know about these women from historical documents. I really work to finish each novel I buy, but this one I deleted off my kindle. (PS -- rather than commenting on other people's reviews, please write one of your own . . . for this text, that would even out the stars on Amazon). Perhaps it would make a better movie...
5 My thoughts of Thomas Cromwell, such as they were before this book, were formed by the Holbein portraits of people in the Age of Bad Hats and by A Man for All Seasons.  Cromwell looks gimlet eyed and harsh in his Holbein portrait, obviously of humble origins as his detractors were quick to note.  However, he had to have been a brilliant man to have risen through the ranks.  It certainly must have been true that Cromwell ignored the pieties of the time and did not accept that nobles were his betters or that his lot in life was to toil miserably.  His wide travels, knowledge of languages, and varied experiences had to have made him impatient with the sclerotic institutions of England, including the Church.Hilary Mantel runs with this - giving Cromwell and his household wit and skepticism, expressed quietly in a poisonous political environment where the walls had ears.  She also evokes an England that is smelly, dreary, and pestilential - where even a privileged man could watch helplessly as his beloved wife and daughters died in a summer plague epidemic.  Henry VIII comes across as talented, smart, but without any useful checks on his behavior, dangerously impetuous.  We can harmlessly wish our enemies dead, but Henry was able to act on those impulses.  There was always someone feeding his fears of conspiracies, and, as implied in the account of Anne Boleyn's trial, fear of ridicule of his virility or lack thereof. Not everyone would have just accepted this was the women's fault.The author does tend to have Cromwell speak without using quotation marks and not identifying him as anything other than "he."  However, you'll get the hang of this quickly.  Sometimes you're not sure whether Cromwell is speaking or just thinking, but I think this gives you the experience of being inside Cromwell's head.  In any event, if you can read Faulkner, you should have no problem with this.  It's also true that everyone in the 16th century seems to have been named Henry or Tom, but just turn down the page giving the cast of characters.
3 I HAD to have this book way back when it was available thru Amazon UK.  I have being anxious to unload it on someone else!  My copy is cheap!But, I digress.  I have NEVER had such a hard time following a storyline before.  I would read half a page, getting more and more confused, then realize that another character (other than the one I THOUGHT was talking) was yapping away.  Choppy, choppy, choppy!!!!  I trudged through the book until about the last 100 pages and finally gave up!  I think my eyes rolled back in my head, and I actually stopped breathing for a few seconds!The prose of the writing was great but the smoothness of the writing was AWFUL!! What a disappointment!Honesty may not sell my copy of the book, but I sure am not gonna rave about what could've been a wonderful read and wasn't!
5 There's a wonderful tableau in the Frick Museum in New York City consisting of two Hans Holbein portraits, the first of Sir Thomas More, the other of Thomas Cromwell.Both portraits are small, oil on oak panels, about 30 inches by 30 inches. The artworks are on display in the museum's Living Hall and their positioning on nearly opposite ends of the same wall offers an unexpected but somehow profound commentary on Tudor England.More's portrait is on the left side of the hall, his head in profile facing right. Cromwell is on the right facing left and for as long as the artworks remain on display the two antagonists are left to hang in artful confrontation. Each looks dour enough to make you smile at the irony.No one has done it before and no one is likely in the future to  breathe life into those two moral and political opponents the way Hilary Mantel does in "Wolf Hall," a book almost magical in its ability to put you there, at the center of court during the tempestuous reign of Henry VIII. In "Wolf Hall" Mantel takes ownership of verisimilitude.We know what happens, we know who wears the hair shirt, we know when the axe will fall and whose head will be next.  In Mantel's telling the story sparkles in its freshness as brightly as Wolsey's signet ring.  Anne Boleyn is ascendant, More is morally obstinate and almost petulant, and the last scene in the book has Cromwell planning to ride off with the King to Wolf Hall to visit the Seymours where presumably Jane will be in attendance and a new Tudor roundelay is set begin.Along with Richard III, Cromwell has been vilified more than almost anyone in English history. It's another near-astounding accomplishment that Mantel is able to make Cromwell human, savvy and astute as well as tireless and yes, even compassionate.In vibrant colors Mantel paints for us a lord who treats the servants well, names his succession of dogs Bella, is devoted to his family and is a pragmatist committed to his master, the King. Mantel gives us an amazing portrait of a man of power and loyalty wrestling with his own destiny. She gives you Cromwell shown in an entirely new light. "Wolf Hall" is dazzling.
5 This is not an easy book to read.  There are many characters that come and go as there are political situations that come and go. The constant is the Church that is always there and important and powerful.  Both Church and Political Arena are changeable depending upon the time and season.It took me a while to get through &#34;Wolf Hall&#34; but I was glad I did.  So much so that I went on to the next in the series &#34;Bring Up the Bodies&#34;.I recommend Hilary Mantel's works for her historical accuracy and intrigue of a period of time that changed our world and our Church as we know it.
4 As a reader of Tudor fiction and non-fiction, I was looking forward to locating this book. When I received my copy, I just plunged into reading it and found it absorbing and it gave a "fly on the wall" perspective about Henry VIII's Great Matter (his wanting to put aside Katherine of Aragon to marry Anne Boleyn).  The book is from the point of view and perspectives of Thomas Cromwell during his rise to power in the court of Henry VIII. The book takes us from Cromwell's early days and his unhappy relationship with his abusive father and skips ahead to the time where he was an employee of Cardinal Wolsey. The author also describes Cromwell's home life with his wife Elizabeth and three children and the untimely deaths of his wife and two of his children. Cromwell's meetings with such noted Tudors as Henry VIII, Anne Boleyn, Katherine of Aragon, Princess Mary (the future Mary I), Thomas More, Mary Boleyn and Jane Seymour.Thomas Cromwell in this book is a man who more or less does what he needs to do to advance in the Tudor court. He does show sympathy for Cardinal Wolsey during his downfall in the court of Henry VIII.It think Anne Boleyn is depicted worst of all, as a scheming manipulative woman who laughs at a play about Wolsey going to hell and talking about "disposing of" Henry's daughter Mary. Cromwell finds Princess Mary  intelligent and Katherine quite formidable in his dealings with her.I enjoyed the author's fictional account of Cromwell's home life and the relationship of Thomas and his son Gregory is very realistic.I found this an absorbing book. However, there are times when it is hard to discern who is talking to whom and I have to back up to see which characters are conversing.I look forward to the sequel the author is said to have planned.
3 Our Book Club discussed WOLF HALL recently, had mixed opinions about whether or not it was worth reading, and just could not decide if we cared about the people in the book. While we were familiar with England leaving the Catholic Church and refusing to accept the Pope as leader of its church, we were surprised at the way the major people  (Thomas More, Henry VIII, Thomas Cromwell) were portrayed. The many reasons responsible for England wanting to leave the church  (in addition to Henry VIII wanting to marry Anne Boylen) can be documented but the thoughts in the minds of of the characters involved can not.  Thomas More has  a reputation of being very principled and supportive of the Church; probably why he was canonized.  Henry VIII has always seemed much more flamboyant than he appears in this book.  The big surprise, Thomas Cromwell,  multi-faceted and intelligent, is the moving force for the action, but how can his feelings and personality be documented?  I have no problem with literary licenese yet my sense in this situation is that Mantel is 'gilding the lily' too much.At times the narrative moves at a quick pace, but the choice to constantly use the pronoun 'he' without reference is very confusing. With so many characters, in a book that is quite long, the most significant decision for the reader is whether or not to acknowlege Mantel's perception of the major 'players'  -- very difficult when those characters are prominent historically.
5 History provided the plot, but it's still a great one and very, very well rendered here. I particularly liked the attention given to physical culture. We get detail on all kinds of things like clothing, heights of ceiling, windowpanes etc., but without it being front and center or dry and slow. Despite being a substantial book, it was a quick and gripping read for me. And the historical period is itself an important one to know about.
4 A splendidly believable semi-fictional examination of part of the life of one of Heny VIII's most trusted servants: a lowly born and clever man.
3 Wolf Hall is 2009's Man Booker Prize winner and was the favourite from the beginning with something like 10 to 11 odds at winning.  The Booker judges have a habit of surprising but didn't do so this year.I'm not an expert on the history from the time of Henry the 8th though it's certainly one of the most heavily mined topics in fiction.  I began this book with only a basic knowledge of the history and was not familiar with the protagonist of the story Thomas Cromwell.The novel has a short preamble from Thomas Cromwell's youth and then traces his rise from a common son of a blacksmith to one of the most powerful men in England.  Through Cromwell, we experience Henry, Anne Boleyn, Thomas More, Thomas Wolsey and many, many other characters of the time.  The main historical focus of the novel is the events leading to Henry's second marriage and the extreme philosophical and popular debate and passion that it causes.The author deals with the events in great detail and focuses both on the debate, the reaction of the people and the intricate political wheeling and dealing.  Mantel immerses us in the time and explains all sides very thoroughly.  While I've mentioned that it's detailed, it doesn't really lag as for a 600+ page hisorical novel, it moves very quickly.Thomas Cromwell is the star of the novel and through force of will, financial competence, good judgement and political savvy, he rises to power and wealth.  He moves from poor child to a man with significant contacts and talent in the mercantile world to top advisor to Lord Chancellor Thomas Wolsey to ultimately Master Secretary to Henry the 8th.  He is the backroom dealer and driving force that makes Henry's second marriage possible despite great opposition from the Roman Catholic Church and many others.  He is also a trusted advisor to Anne Boleyn.Throughout the novel, Cromwell is reminded of his humble beginnings and looked down upon by noblemen who wonder how he has been able to rise to such lofty heights.I liked Wolf Hall but ..... I didn't love it.  This is perhaps more a comment on my affinity for historical fiction and 16th century England than anything else.  I certainly see why Wolf Hall won the Man Booker and have no particular objection to it.  Ultimately, I wasn't emotionally affected by the novel and for me, that is the difference between a good novel and a great novel.Maybe I'm being petty but Mantel also made choices that annoyed me.  I had trouble with distinguishing characters at times and had to refer back to the listing of the characters frequently.  There are a number of characters named Thomas, Anne, Mary etc. and she sometimes just used those single name labels to describe them.  In a novel with a plethora of characters, this needlessly aggravated me.  She also referred to characters sometimes by their names and other times titles.  Fore example, sometimes she referred to the Duke of Suffolk as Charles Brandon and other times as Suffolk.  Again, in a novel with many, many characters, I had some trouble keeping track of who was saying what.  Sometimes when authors are very close to the material and the characters they can forget that the reader is not as familiar as they are.  This was a flaw though not a fatal one.Summary: Good book, well constructed, very detailed, very well researched.  I liked it.  It did lack emotional impact for me and while I appreciate it, I do not have much affection for it.I recommend Wolf Hall especially to lovers of historical fiction.
5 Very, very Shakespearean. Henry's court is steeped in blood and treachery, and your friends become your enemies overnight. The betrayals can come from politics, religion, personal animosity or sexual intrigue, but that Cromwell survives in such a snakepit is ultimate testimony to his being the smartest (that is, the savviest) man in England (after Wolsey dies). This is the court of Denmark recreated; as Hamlet says, "They smile and smile and yet they are villains". Foul, rank and incestuous--what's not to like? Never play poker with a trickster like Cromwell. And Henry is truly terrifying in his corrosive and callous self absorption.
5 As familiar as the era may be from many books and many movies and TV series, this view of Tudor England as reflected in the life of Thomas Cromwell is believable and extremely sensitive to how people may have thought and lived.  Maybe a little far-fetched to think they spoke as wittily as Oscar Wilde or Jane Austen characters, but certainly entertaining.  On finishing it I had to start the sequel immediately...after that, I don't know where I'll go.
5 I've watched the Showtime series, The Tudors; I've read bios of Henry VIII; I read Diarmaid MacCulloch's book Thomas Cranmer (which I highly recommend for a detailed depiction of what happened step by step to change Catholic England to Church of England England.) But so many of the figures remained shadowy.The C J Sansom mystery series has gone a long way to provide the flavor of the Tudor years. There's even a sense of Thomas Cromwell in action in the initial volume, Dissolution.Then along comes Wolf Hall. This book fleshes out Thomas Cromwell and shows him in relation to all those other shadowy figures. What were just names are becoming a bit more corporal in my imagination.What I especially liked about this book is that Sir Thomas More, the sainted one, becomes much more corporal. We see the carnal, cruel man he might possibly have really been when seen without history's halo.But still, WHAT DID THOMAS CROMWELL DO?Every thing I've read gives the impression that he's busy, busy, busy. And Wolf Hall provides a good sense of the pace of Cromwell's life. But I still had that feeling of insubstantiality. What exactly kept Cromwell so busy?Recently, I came across a book by G. R. Elton. It's got a horrible title, Policy and Police, that doesn't do justice to the richness within. The content concerns itself with describing how a central decision (Popish ways out; Henry as religious leader in, and, by-the-way, Anne is now queen) was enforced throughout the realm.This is done through anecdotes with liberal quotes from testimony as well as excerpts from written documents. The examples of the English language in Tudor times is endlessly enjoyable.Finally I have a sense of what Cromwell had to do on a day to day basis and was apparently doing so well. I begin to understand why Henry came to regret the execution of this man. (How did THAT happen?)I wait for the follow-up to Wolf Hall to get further illunination on Thomas Cromwell.
4 Many reviewers below note the stylistic problems in Wolf Hall ( lack of quotation marks, use of pronoun 'he", etc) . I noticed all of these as I read and like others had to refer to the listing of characters numerous times to be certain I had the right speaker identified. That said , these small obstacles did not detract at all from my overall enjoyment of Wolf Hall. Tudor history even when written in scholarly non-fiction books can be a confusing topic. Hillary Mantel did a masterful job at creating the sense of place and time so important in a work of historical fiction.The book follows the familiar story of Henry VIII's break with Katherine of Aragon and marriage to Anne Boleyn and the resultant conflict with the Pope and establishment of the Anglican church. Mantel's brilliant stroke was to portray these events through the eyes and voice of Thomas Cromwell one of the principal actors in these events. Cromwell is typically portrayed as a Machiavelian character who was instrumental in prosecuting the principled Thomas More for opposing the will of the King. In Mantel's hands he becomes a tough street-wise politician who acts in very understandable ways to advance his own and King Henry's interests.Wolf Hall transports the reader into the Tudor world and is a richly textured work of historical fiction. I think the choices the author made in portraying the characters of Henry VIII, Cromwell and all the other historical characters breathes life into them and enables a different perspective on a familiar chapter in history. This is a great novel deserving of the prize and the hype.
5 This book made Hilary Mantel one of my new favorite authors.  Her writing style is near perfection to me.  It's truly Thomas Cromwell's incredible story set against the richly compelling backdrop of Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn's tumultuous relationship.
3 You know what the book is about. The author continuosly jumps from first person to third person so it is very difficult, often, to tell who is speaking and who is spoken to. Also you needd to keep a dictionary nearby because the book is filled with unfamiliar words. In spite of these failings, the book is interesting and its potrait of the times is very  real. I am loosing faith in the Booker which has confered this honor on undeserving works all too often in the past few years
5 This book lives up to its billing.The big people, and many of the little ones, who dwell in the court and country of Henry VIII -- that wife-consuming monster of English royal history -- stand up and walk around in your thoughts after Hilary Mantel's king-sized novel of uneasy-headed Tudor history.The novel was published two years ago -- she's already published the sequel (which like "Wolf Hall" was named the best fiction of the year in the UK). But if, like me, you've told yourself this is a book you should get around to, the word here is: yes, you should. It's a big book and it will make hungry for more; and now there is more ("Bring Up the Bodies").Henry's court, like "the revolution" of the parable, eats its children -- Cardinal Woolsey, Queen Katherine, Anne Boleyn, Thomas More, so many more. So danger, even tragedy, is lurking on every page. Untimely death strikes ordinary people too, struck down in horrifying numbers every summer or so by "the plague." In a world where "this life" is so temporary, it's easy to appreciate the universal concern over the "next life." Today we assume we have "time" to think about all that. The 16th century was not so lucky.Mantel's creative powers -- it's hard to find terms that don't understate the artistic quality of this book -- rewrite the history we think we know. Henry himself is not such a bad fellow when compared to some of his peers. It's just that he's in a position of seeing all his wishes -- both the sensible ones and the terrible -- enacted in the flesh, with nobody else in the whole country able to say 'stop it, you idiot, and think about what you're doing.' Think CEO, Donald Trump maybe, with a handy torture chamber.The single figure from this nest of high-born vipers that those of us who have read Robert Bolt's "A Man for All Seasons" regard with admiration and sympathy, Thomas More, turns out to be one of the quicker hands to reach for the thumbscrew. At a time when theology is written in blood, More is the colossal defender of the Church of Rome's orthodoxy. Nothing so horrifies him as the thought of an Englishman daring to read the Bible in his own language. It makes him want to build a fire.Against this vision of turning dissenters into torches, the villain of Bolt's play, Thomas Cromwell, enters from the wings as a near-heroic everyman. In comparison to the vain, shallow aristocrats who clog the court, like bad plumbing, Cromwell possesses a combination of qualities and virtues that doesn't send a modern, egalitarian sensibility yearning for a guillotine. He's a working class hero whose rise to middle-class and professional stature makes the democrat in us stand up and salute. The only other figure who attracts more than repels is Woolsey, a prince of the old church whose own common origins, and practical abilities, make the Tudor court's upper-class twits want to destroy him on general principles.Mantel has us admiring Woolsey for his decency even while teaching Cromwell the principles of effective public policy, and personal survival, in a court of medieval cannibals. She has us loving Cromwell for keeping the Machiavelli in his own makeup in check while he pulls strings, out-thinks and --in very middle-class fashion -- out-works everybody in sight to become the single essential man for Henry; even as Henry extracts the Church of Rome from not-so-merry old England (particularly its extensive real estate holdings) and replaces the church's claws with his own.Of course, the book isn't all class and religion and power -- three ways of saying the same thing -- it's about mating too. But even here, the king's desire to replace Queen Katherine with Anne Boleyn, not as concubine but as wife, is about how to rule a country. The king needs a legitimate heir. Unlike all other women, Anne, this book tells us, is a power in her own right. Her ambition is not so different from the others', Cromwell's even, and she uses her refusal to let the king get what he wants to get what she wants.All of these characters -- and scores of others -- are imagined with rapier strokes of exactitude and plausibility in circumstances far more often quotidian than grand, as in real rather than "dramatic" life. They are more real to us in the end than the two-legged pygmy monsters walking around D.C. today. Truth may be "stranger" than fiction. But fiction on this order makes it more real."You choose your prince," Cromwell says. Therein lies the tragedy. It tells us much about human nature and human society (more than we want to know) that everyone in Henry's England prefers the notion of an absolute monarch, however flawed and tyrannical, however monstrous, to the absence of a clear and unimpeachable power to rule over them. Five centuries later, in the land of checks and balances, we're glad we're beyond all that. At least, shudder, I hope so.
2 For those who love historical fiction, are quite familiar with the main players in England 1500-1535, and want to go live there via an engrossing novel, this is your book.  The style of writing, the dialog and the details really pull you into that time and place.Unfortunately, nothing much was happening in those years.  The Hundred Years war was over, Wales was subdued, and the drama of the Roanoke colony of 1586 and the Spanish Armada of 1588 were in the future.  "Wolf Hall" is much about intrigue, speculation, petty quarrels and jealousies.
5 who would have thought Thomas Cromwell would be so interesting, or that with his complex relationship with Henry VIII , his part in the split from the catholic church could possibly be so riveting? Great read and although dauntingly long, you don't really want it to end!!
5 The lady has access to a time machine. That's the only explanation I can come up with. Written in the present tense, we really become spectators to an incredible history.
5 My co-worker lent me this and I had to apologize for taking so long to read it. The early chapters of Hilary Mantel's "Wolf Hall" were a bit dense. Once I "got it", however, the sailing was smooth. Anyway, I don't mind slow starts as long as there is a pay-off, and boy was there! Just being in Thomas Cromwell's head was enough of a reward.You can't go wrong with this milieu and these historical figures. However, historical fiction can be tricky work: if writers don't properly mix the "real" figures with the fictional ones, or if they impose modern ways of thinking on people of the past, they are going to fail. To me, the deadliest sin is introducing background information--exposition--about the period that reads like a textbook. This is when the novel loses its entertainment value. Hilary Mantel carefully and successfully avoids these snags, and takes us into a fascinating world. Now, I am looking forward to reading the next installment.
2 Sorry folks but this review is not complete - I am reading this book and am now on page 126 - I am in a perpetual dilema of whether to carry on with this or to give up.I should have realised that most books that win the Booker Prize are usually unreadable and mere fodder that impresses pretentious professional readers - the loudmouths who love the sounds of their own clap-trap - but this book is borderline unreadable and hence my dilema.The various scenes are many - all small set pieces of dialogue and descriptions of situations - well written and elequently put - and not without interest - but slightly turgid and dull. After reading one of these passages I am minded to abandon this venture as boredom creeps over me as well as the sense that I can be doing something more productive with my time - however - I persevere in the hope that there will be a point to all of this. My dilema is whether to invest the time it will take to read the book and whether it will be worth it in the end.I am not convinced it is at the moment because all we have is the writer's take on a piece of history which might or might not bear any resemblance to the reality. The book seems to have a modern feel to it and Cromwell could very be found in the 21st Century - so how real is this book? There is also the irritation I am feeling about the pretentious writing style - designed not for a good reading experience but more for the literati audience of Booker prize judges. Such obvious artifice is cloying and annoying.And there is so much detail - mostly irrelevant to anything - made up most probably by the writer. I dont know whether the historical detail is correct and some reviewers have suggested that it is (how do they know?) but sadly I dont care.So am in a dilema - long book - not really worth the effort ? Not sure........I doubt that it is.In a few years time this boook will be seen for what it truly is......pretentious and overpreening nonsense probably.I had began to read H Mantell's autobiography - but I am minded to dump that now as well.
5 [NOTE: This review may appear to tell a lot of what happens in the book, but any events given here are recorded British history. What matters is not so much the story that Mantel tells, but the perspective from which she tells it.]Hilary Mantel's latest novel, a huge and meticulously detailed book that won the 2009 Man Booker Prize, is about the rise to power of Henry VIII's chief minister, Thomas Cromwell. Born the son of a blacksmith, fleeing to continental Europe to escape his father's abuse, he spends almost 20 years abroad as a soldier of fortune, then household servant, moving above-stairs as his talents are recognized to become an accountant, scholar, banker, lawyer, and in general a man who knows how to fix things, by fair means of foul. Mantel references this long apprenticeship only in retrospect; after a vivid scene with teenage Thomas and his drunken father, the book leaps ahead three decades to 1527, when Cromwell is 42 and using his talents in the service of Cardinal Wolsey, the most powerful man in England next to the King. It is presented as an intensely loyal relationship, with much affection on both sides. Cromwell is also shown as a devoted husband and father -- a surprisingly sympathetic portrait of a figure usually portrayed as King Henry's hard-hearted hatchet man. One of the delights of the book is simply the time spent in the company of such a thoughtful and dedicated human being.When Wolsey is stripped of his powers in 1529, Cromwell enters the service of the King, managing to soften his treatment of his former master while furthering Henry's own needs, a remarkable juggling act in itself. Soon he has become the King's closest adviser. Henry is seeking to end his 20-year marriage to Katherine of Aragon in order to marry Anne Boleyn, a court lady of much lower rank who he hopes will bear him a son. (She didn't, but her daughter would reign as Elizabeth I.) Wolsey had tried to negotiate an annulment from Rome, but failed. Cromwell the lawyer, now dividing his time between the court and parliament, suggests the alternative course of having Henry simply declared as the head of the English Church. It is the first step towards Anglicanism, although Henry himself remained an adherent of the Catholic rite, and this was a still a time when practitioners of the more radical Protestantism preached by Luther and others on the continent were burned at the stake as heretics.Mantel does not shy from the fact of these executions and tortures, but nor does she rub our noses in them. Similarly, although she is as frank about bedroom matters as anything else, there is hardly a whiff of the bejeweled prurience normally associated with historical romance. Anne, who is presented as a self-centered manipulator, keeping Henry on a string for more than seven years, finally marries the King and admits him to her bed. It is remarkable that, although Mantel comes close to portraying Anne as the villain of the piece, she treats the interviews between Anne and Cromwell with respect and courtesy on both sides. Her writing is as free from melodrama as it is from bodice-ripping, and the many lesser romances throughout the book (some even involving Cromwell himself) are treated with sincerity and warmth.Mantel prefaces the novel with a five-page list of characters, like a theater program. This is very useful, but even so it can be hard to keep track. Women change their names in marriage, courtiers are awarded titles of nobility, and the store of given names is remarkably small: there are 5 Henrys, 4 Marys, 4 Annes, and 11 Thomases! At 532 large-format pages, the book is also very long. Too long? Perhaps, but who is to say what could be cut? The novel gives the best description of Realpolitik that I have ever read, as a series of painstaking negotiations backed up by meticulous attention to practical detail; scant that, and the entire texture is lost. Very little actually happens in the book, but HOW it happens is the point.We know from history that Henry fell out of love with Anne Boleyn, and beheaded her in order to marry Jane Seymour. Within a few years, Cromwell would also fall out of favor and be executed in his turn. Mantel hints that there might be a connection between these events, and in the very last line -- which explains the rather elliptical title -- she points towards a continuation that might well be developed in a sequel, but doesn't need to be.
4 Wall Street Journal book club pick by Elizabeth Gilbert who described this book as the novel of the century -- even though the century is only a few years old.  And to answer the question, what more do we need to know about Henry VIII, the tale is told from the viewpoint of Thomas Cromwell.Mantel transports the reader into the head of a master of politics and society and though he came from an ordinary beginning became as powerful as the king.  A masterful rendering of the sense of place and of dialogue and customs of the court.  My only hesitation in agreeing to the high praise is that despite the claim all is told from a new point of view, it is the same story and not much new, just beautifully rendered.  The dialogue at times is confusing, and I sense the author's difficulties with so many Henry's and Thomas's speaking at once, and at times too much work for me to go back and decipher who &#34;he&#34; refers to in a passage, and so I just read on.  A shame I think.A phrase that may sum up the book in three words:  Arrange your face.And one of many of my favorite passages:The fate of peoples is made like this, two men in small rooms.  Forget the coronations, the conclaves of cardinals, the pomp and processions.  This is how the world changes:  a counter pushed across a table, a pen stroke that alters the force of a phrase, a woman's sigh as she passes and leaves on the air a trail of orange flower or rose water; her hand pulling close the bed curtain, the discreet sigh of flesh against flesh.
5 The challenges an author faces in writing an outstanding work of historical fiction are many and severe. If the historical events are well known by the general readership, which is certainly the case with the many wives of Henry VIII, then the author's usual ability to invent story elements is somewhat limited. How does the author make somewhat familiar events exciting and interesting? How does the author's approach stack up against not only other fictional works on the same story, but against the body of professional historical literature as well?  I am pleased to say that on all these counts, the great acclaim received by Hilary Mantel for this book (the first of projected trilogy) is entirely justified. It is as fine a work of historical fiction as one is likely to encounter in this lifetime.Probably the most unique element of the novel is that it is told from the perspective of Thomas Cromwell, who achieved the highest rank under Henry VIII. We are all familiar with the heroic portrayals of his principal rival, Thomas More, who gave up his life to protest Henry's marriage to Anne Boleyn and the resultant termination of the Catholic Church in England. I refer principally to Robert Bolt's superb play (and resulting movie) which focuses upon the final duel between More and Cromwell, two great lawyers. Bolt and historians as well make Cromwell the villain of the story, and probably justifiably so. But in so doing, we are overlooking the rather harsh dimensions of More, who spared no barbaric practices in interrogating and pursuing supposed heretics and other enemies. In this novel, we learn much about More and his less heroic activities. While not diminishing More's great courageous stand, it does even up the record somewhat. And like Aaron Burr in Gore Vidal's novels about Burr and Jefferson, we learn that perhaps the villain was not so inexplicable and dastardly as we had thought.Bolt's play has a pretty narrow focus principally on More's trial and death. One of the strongest scenes in the play (and the film version with Paul Scofield as More) is the intellectual duel between these two protagonists, great lawyers and brilliant debaters, as Cromwell tries to trick More into, in effect, confessing. To the end, More placed his principal reliance upon silence as a defense. I believe Mantel's version of these events is equally gripping.While the book runs 600 pages, it is never dry and without intense drama. The amount of research that Mantel must have done to prepare for writing the novel must have been astonishing. The characters speak exactly as you would expect them too; it is almost like listening in on a non-existent voice recording. There are many characters here, it is true; but Mantel has helped we readers by including both a "cast of characters" and family trees.  I generally don't read much fiction, for fear I am squandering precious time. I never once had that feeling while reading this fine novel. Read and enjoy!
5 A vast panorama of world history unfolds in this fictional account of England's Henry VIII, whose ego and decisions altered life at the time and continues to profoundly impact life today. The story of a self-absorbed king, and his many efforts to provide his country with a legitimate heir, is well known, but Hilary Mantel imbues this with drama and suspense, as well as many details which give life to the most mundane moments. Astoundingly-well researched and authentic in tone, this version of the story of Henry and Thomas Cromwell, one of his closest advisors, is fresh and new on every page. My friend says this novel needed a better editor because it confused her, at times, as to who was speaking. I noticed that aspect of this historical novel, but did not let it deter my pleasure in the story, the plot development, or the richness of the characters. I felt almost transported to the court and its life-altering conspiracies through Mantel's imagery. This is a winner, in every sense of the word.
3 I found it hard to follow and tedious. It was a bit too heady for me.  I can respect the research done but it just wasn't for me.
5 why can I not give this book 10 stars?  it is simply spectacular in both its plotting, style, and import.  reading this, i felt that if i could pay enough attention to understand how thomas cromwell was conducting his life, i would know so much more about how to be effective and how to appreciate one's place in the world.  Mantel offers a very complex view of this man: it is as much a study in how to make life choices in constricted circumstances as it is how personal and professional life could and perhaps did work in the 16th Century.  What is most striking about it is that it is a study of how an outsider is able to manage to survive as an outsider for many years in a power world that is probably more like our own than is superficially obvious.  Read it and weep; read it and learn.
3 In my opinion, the author did a lot of research to write this book.  I'm glad I was able to recall what I had learned in my college history classes; that helped me as I was reading. It's also good that I have some knowledge of languages. The author used some phrases from different languages and didn't always translate them for the reader.
5 Not much to say except that I really enjoyed her portrayal of Cromwell, and the way we were taken through events from his point of view.
5 The Man Booker jury got it right, twice. Mantel created two brilliant books, and I suspect will write four more on the period, one for each of Henry's wives. She's a novelist, an historian and a very sharp pen. Best read for several years.
3 This is a comprehensive work, but it is also a difficult work because of its various time frames.
3 The strain of information is chopped up and upsetting to follow. It's great to get the backstage feeling of what happened however.
4 It was well written but with so  many people mentioned and not fully defined for me it was confusing.  I read it because of the great review in the WSJ.
5 Makes Cromwell, More, Henry VIII come alive, reads like a brilliant script, living history well imagined and shared with readers
4 Wolf Hall by Hilary MantelNo - it's not about werewolves nor is it a Gothic novel. This book won the 2009 Man Booker award and has had great critical praise. Neither factor attracted me. It was the subject matter - the reign of King Henry the VIII of England. Actually, the book is about Thomas Cromwell, adviser to Cardinal Wolsey who had the bad luck of dealing with Henry in his quest for a 'proper' annulment from Queen Katherine.In the front of the book are several pages of formidable family trees of Brit royalty. After that 'royal' start, the book opens with bang - a graphic scene of Thomas Cromwell as a boy, being beaten by his drunken father. After that brief 'section I' - we are picked up at the start of Section II and set down in the English court some 30 or more years later. What happened in the interim is mentioned only in vague terms with no explanation of how the son of an drunken blacksmith wound up in the corridors of power.It helps to have some knowledge and understanding of the era and since I've read reams - biographies, novels - about the reigns of Henry and his daughter Elizabeth, I had an advantage. I know the Boleyns; the dukes of Norfolk and Suffolk referred to are familiar - their intrigues and aspirations. The English court of the era was pretty messy. The clergy also were very powerful and rich, plotting with the best (or worst) of the court.All this makes the plot sound dense and inaccessible - but it's not. The reader will sort of 'live' in Cromwell's head. The sense of 'being there' - of eavesdropping - is strong. The prose is quite poetic and that's nice but I read for content. The beauty of a well turned phrase is a bonus. One 'nit' to pick. Mantel is a bit obscure when she identifies people who are conversing. I was thrown off balance any number of times by the fact that, in conversations, she uses the word 'he' instead of the speaker's name. There were times when I didn't know who was saying what and had to come to a screeching halt while I backtracked to identify the speaker.By the way, the 'Wolf Hall' of the title is only alluded to - it is apparently the 'lair' of the Seymours, one of whom becomes the wife of Henry VIII, following Anne Boleyn. I've read that a sequel to this book is in the works in which I would guess that Wolf Hall becomes more prominent.
4 Absolutely wonderfully written look at the Tudor Court - not ,as usual, from the royal perspective, but from that of secretary Thomas Cromwell. Cromwell is a mysterious character, rising as he did from the son of a blacksmith to one of the most important men in England. Ms Mantel has crafted a kind of stream of consciousness novel, combining actual events with the thoughts and feelings inside his head - like other reviewers I found this a challenge to begin with, but it works to flesh out Cromwell as we follow his actions.All set against the precarious world of Henry VIII's court, where the king may turn on you at any time:'The cardinal says, do you think this is a tilting ground? Do you think there are rules, protocols, judges to see fair play? One day, when you are still adjusting your harness, you will look up and see him thundering at you downhill.'Planning to read the sequel once I've had a breather!
4 I did enjoy this book, I at first had to keep going to back to the list of characters, but after a few chapters I got into the book and it was a good read.
4 There are so many pros and cons about this book. Pro: it's an interesting time period and Cromwell makes for a very interesting narrator. Con: this is told from Cromwell's POV, but Cromwell is never named, so everything reads, "He looked at her," and "He went to Wolf Hall..." All the "he's" become quite confusing after several hundred pages of that.Overall, however, I give this four stars because I enjoyed the story even if it was difficult to get through for the previously mentioned reason. I assume there's going to be a sequel given where it ends. If so, I'll probably pick it up.
5 ....admittedly it helps to be somewhat familiar with Tudor history. Also with customs like calling someone by their holdings--Charles Brandon is Suffolk, for example.  Very educational and entertaining all at once. Mantel interweaves very skilfully her massive research into a gripping narrative.  An example is that she reminds us as More's execution nears, of all the people he killed, and not by beheading but by burning--not by listing them, but by Cromwell remembering them as More's death nears.  But nothing else I have read comes close to interweaving all of the characters involved in the Henry's tragic but ultimately successful production of an heir (Elizabeth) like this book.I understand that there's a sequel in the works and I can't wait to read it.
5 If you love hearing the tales of King Henry VIII's many loves and have ever wondered about the behind-the-scenes politicing that went on leading up to his Queen Katherine's demise then this is one big book for you! I am only 3/4 of the way through it because I am purposely taking my time. There is so much to digest here.This having been an election year here in the US I shake my head at some of the similarities. Seems the behind-the-scenes of politics  has really not changed too much in 400 years! Everyone was sucking up and jocking for position then -- just as they do now. The biggest exception is we no longer lob off heads (literally) or submit our opponents to physical torture -- we just do it verbally now. Hum.....It is interesting beyond belief to read of all the flirtation that permeated the royal court - especially with the ever in need of love (but shrewdly withholding it - from the King) Anne Boleyn. The manipulations behind the scenes by her family - most especially her father, brother and sister Mary are quite eye opening. Seems the entire family was living vicariously (and financially) through Anne.I have given Wolf Hall five stars for the flow of the writing, the depth of content and the overall interest. I really do not have any complaints.Written in Cromwells voice it is sometimes a bit  difficult read. The story does jump forward and back a little but if you take your time and savor every word then you will not become confused. This really is a story to savor and not just a quick read!The author has kindly supplied a genealogy of sorts in the front of the book. This is a huge help in keeping all the cast of &#34;characters&#34; straight. It is rather interesting to watch as Cromwell changes from a kind honest man to a flunky of the King -- most likely to retain his head on his shoulders and/or avoid &#34;the rack&#34; as has befallen so many around him. His personality change is quite subtle but at times he does let his guard down and we see his kind, inner self once again.I can hardly wait to finish this book and move on to the next which deals with the remainder of King Henry's wives. The second book is supposed to be a bit faster / easier read. If it is anything like Wolf Hall I will be most happy.
3 Hilary's a bit &#34;long winded&#34;, but interesting enough to keep me reading on. I read her second in the trilogy, same thinking and want to read number three,.  What's it's title?
5 I read the sequel (Bring Up the Bodies) first by accident and am enjoying Wolf Hall tremendously as it fills in all of the gaps. Really an amazing piece of creative fiction!
2 Because of all the publicity around Hilary Mantel winning the Man Booker Prize twice, I felt that I should read both books.I found it very beautifully written and her command of English excellent, BUT it took so long for me to see where she was coming from that I became very frustrated. I felt that because of her style of writing she tended to take for granted that you had the bigger picture.  Half way through the book I downloaded all the information I could find on Thomas Cromwell, his ancestry and his descendents.  This gave me a much better understanding of the characters in her book.For me it was very frustrating reading both books and I will NOT be reading the third.
5 This review is over the top, but, then, I confess to being a WOLF HALL junkie, reading the book straight through twice on a kindle, buying the paperback, flipping through the pages, underlining favorite passages, listening to the audio version again and again, finding peace in the rhythm of its prose.WOLF HALL by Hilary Mantel is a magnificent novel, a fictionalized biography of Thomas Cromwell. Except for early scenes involving Thomas's youthful break with his family, the novel's present spans from 1500 to Thomas More's beheading in 1535.Son of a Putney blacksmith, Cromwell in this novel makes good in the service of his cardinal, his king, his church. He survived the disgrace of his mentor, Cardinal Thomas Wolsey, becoming one of Henry VIII's most powerful ministers, a member of his inner circle. As Wolsey's secretary and legal advisor, he oversaw the dissolution of the monasteries. As Henry's confidante and minister, he supported the king's divorce from Catherine of Aragon, the break with the pope, Henry's marriage to Anne Boleyn.The structure of the novel is a delicacy, a story told not always chronologically. The prose is a delight, the author's grasp of language and of history, prodigious.My favorite character, other than Cromwell, is the cardinal, and the playful scenes between him and Cromwell I read or listen to again and again.But what makes the novel great for me is the unfolding complexity of Cromwell's character, through masterful dialogue, through the juxtaposition of scenes chronicling his rise to power with those presaging his demise, but especially in Cromwell's reflections on loss, gain, life. And in Thomas's mind we hear Renaissance man thinking almost as if he were a modern. In the character's descriptions of his years on the continent, his interior monologues become intimate episodes of storytelling. Thomas Cromwell is comfortable in his many skins:"He Thomas, also Tomos, Tommaso and Thomaes Cromwell, withdraws his past selves into his present body and edges back to where he was before. His single shadow slides against the wall, a visitor not sure of his welcome. Which of these Thomases saw the blow coming? There are moments when a memory moves right through you."Through the protagonist's dealings with More, Norfolk, Wolsey, King Henry VIII; in the tender, domestic scenes with his family, and in his compassion for those who suffered during Henry's courtship and brief marriage to Anne Boleyn--Catherine and her daughter, Mary, even with the imprisoned More--we come to know the many faces of Thomas Cromwell.The book ends with Cromwell's half-formed plan to visit Wolf Hall shortly after the beheading of Thomas More. Does the reader hear the faint approach of Cromwell's fall from favor, or is it just that history gets in our way?"Interesting how our vocabulary responds, providing us with words we have never needed before, words stacked away for us, neatly folded into our brain and there for our use: like a bride's lifetime supply of linen, or a ducal trove of monogrammed china. Death will overtake us before a fraction of those words are used."Two more of my favorite passages:"He will remember his first sight of the open sea: a gray wrinkled vastness, like the residue of a dream.""The fate of peoples is made like this, two men in small rooms. Forget the coronations, the conclaves of cardinals, the pomp and processions. This is how the world changes: a counter pushed across a table, a pen stroke that alters the force of a phrase, a woman's sigh as she passes and leaves on the air a trail of orange flower or rose water; her hand pulling close the bed curtain, the discreet sigh of flesh against flesh."Needless to say, I'm waiting for the sequel.
4 Nice lead in novel for her 2nd book Bring Up the Bodies, it helped me keep characters & events straight.
5 This novel is about the life of Thomas Cromwell, and the story starts out as a teenage Thomas is badly beaten by his low-class, drunken father. Thomas leaves home to run off to become a soldier in France, both as a way of escaping the abuse at home and to find some sort of future for himself.We follow Thomas as he rises up in society through his keen wit and intelligence, and how he eventually becomes top advisor to Henry VIII. Well, be careful what you wish for.This is simply one of the best historical novels I have ever read. I am a big fan of books set during the reign of the Tudors which helped me since there are a lot of characters mentioned. (It seems as if most of them are named Thomas, or Richard, Anne or Mary, which can get a bit confusing.) The author does provide a list of characters at the beginning, which is very helpful.At first I was a bit bothered by the way I was unsure at times as to POV and as to who was speaking or having the thoughts narrated. But eventually I started to go with the flow and I began to really appreciate the style and writing of  this ambitious, epic novel. This was a slow read for me because of these issues, but never a boring one, and every time I put the book down I looked forward to picking it back up.When I had read the last page, I felt a bit stunned. I wished there was someone nearby I could talk to about this book - which is always the sign of a great book for me.Highly highly recommended. You will get a new intimate perspective and respect for Thomas Cromwell. And did I mention that this book is funny? There is wit and wisdom throughout the book, and I often found myself laughing out loud while reading it.Brava.
5 There's a scene in Wolf Hall by Hilary Mantel in which Thomas Cromwell looks at the just finished painting of himself by Hans Holbein the Younger and muses to his son, "I fear Mark was right ... I once heard him say I looked like a murderer." His son says, "Did you not know?"In this lion of a book, Mantel successfully portrays a very plausible, sympathetic picture of a man who outwardly may look like a ruthless, greedy, and ambitious villain in the Tudor court (although even if you know just a little about the royal intrigues and political machinations of that time, almost everyone ends up looking like a villain). Being a peasant I'm sure was bad enough, but being a royal, scheming for this and that and if one aligns oneself with the wrong person or is a pawn with the wrong outcome, to pay for one's life - the times themselves were ruthless.The reality of Cromwell, apart from the fictional, is a fascinating treasure trove. Son of a common blacksmith, soldier, scholar, fluent in many languages - the ultimate self-made, self-taught man who scrabbled up from nothing to become the most important man in England after the King. Mantel covers Cromwell's incredible rise to power just when it seems as though all is lost, at the time when his patron, Cardinal Wolsey, falls into steep disfavor with the King."There were days, not too long past, days since Lizzie died, when he'd woken in the morning and had to decide, before he could speak to anybody, who he was and why. There were days when he'd woken from dreams of the dead and searching for them. When his waking self trembled, at the threshold of deliverance from his dreams."But those days are not these days."Sometimes, when Chapuys has finished digging up Walter's Bones and making his own life unfamiliar to him, he feels almost impelled to speak in defense of his father, his childhood. But it is no use to justify yourself. It is not good to explain. It is weak to be anecdotal. It is wise to conceal the past even if there is nothing to conceal. A man's power is in the half-light, in the half-seen movements of his hand and the unguessed-at expression of his face. It is the absence of facts that frightens people: the gap you open, into which they put their fears, fantasies, and desires."Wolf Hall by Hilary Mantel is gripping but it should not be rushed through or read too fast. Although in 500+ pages Mantel only covers 8 years, I found myself stopping and re-reading passages because something of great significance had happened that was conveyed with subtlety and irony. Early on I stopped dead in my tracks and flipped the pages back thinking, what just happened? (But not in a bad way) Mantel's writing is also to be savored - the language is sharp and witty. Almost every character is so ambitious and suspicious that they frequently never say what they mean and scenes have multiple layers of undercurrents. Mantel forces you to pay great attention to every word. Not one is wasted, no scene superfluous.
5 Wolf Hall by Hilary Mantel is a passport taking you 500 years into the past to follow the career of Thomas Cromwell, son of a common smith, who we meet first as a child fleeing his abusive father. Mantel skips over the years when Cromwell is by turns soldier, traveller, merchant and student, during which he learns courage, cunning, half a dozen languages including Latin and Greek, and a shrewd grasp of the law -- all of which lead to his becoming right hand man to Cardinal Wolsey, who is the most powerful man in England, excepting only Henry, who he serves devotedly.Henry VIII is secure on his throne, but he lacks a male heir. His first wife, Katherine of Aragon, has produced a daughter, Mary, but Henry needs a son. Henry turns to Wolsey to get him a divorce.Mantel takes us into the family feuds, the political intrigues, the international machinations and the theological debates of the Reformation that all tangle together as Cromwell serves Wolsey, and Wolsey serves the king. Henry needs to overturn the Pope's ruling that allowed him to marry his brother's widow Katherine, so that he can put her aside and marry Ann Boleyn with whom Henry has fallen in love. Wolsey fails, is disgraced and dies, but Cromwell goes on to engineer the events that lead to Henry's marriage to Ann, thereby ensuring the legitimacy of their daughter who will be Elizabeth I, and on the way, the establishment of the Church of England headed by Henry.In Mantel's account, Cromwell is a church-going agnostic, pragmatically aware of the power of faith in the life and politics of his time. He is a political fixer, strategist and designer of laws. He is essentially the first English civil servant: neither a churchman nor a member of the nobility. If you have seen Cromwell only as the man who was responsible for the death of Sir (or Saint, if you prefer) Thomas More, be prepared to reconsider or at least modify your views, because Mantel achieves the supreme goal of historic fiction: she so immerses you in the spirit of the time that you see from the perspectives of the historical figures she portrays and you understand More from Cromwell's point of view. This is sharply different from those who offer only a well-researched romp through history with occasional cameo appearances by well-known names, dressed for Hollywood, and talking modern English with an occasional "forsooth" tossed in for effect. Mantel's characters were real people who she brings back to life so vividly, that even when we know the outcome in advance, we share Cromwell's anxiety at each moment when his fate, as well as that of his king and country, hang between plan and outcome.Mantel bends novelistic convention by referring to Cromwell as "he" while giving us his point of view as a first-person observer and participant. It took a little while for me to get used to the technique, but soon I was experiencing the unfolding present as if Cromwell were writing the story modestly himself. This stylistic trick lets us see the details of life in the time of the Tudors through contemporary eyes, rather than the fall-back position of many historical novelists who laboriously tell us how different then was from now.Wolf Hall is a psychodrama, not an action thriller. Murders, executions, births, wars and assassinations take place off stage. We experience them through Cromwell's consciousness and feel his reactions. The historic events are important to him, of course, but so are his glimpse of Mary Boleyn's green stockings, or his tenderness towards the child Jane Seymour, who we know and he doesn't, will be Henry's third wife -- and the only one of the six to die naturally.The book ends before the death of Ann Boleyn, leaving me wanting 650 pages more in Bring Up the Bodies, the sequel.
1 I usually enjoy historical novels and have read quite a few. I found this one to be very difficult to get into and then could not get involved with it.  Do not know how it received all the accolades it did.
3 When the author got out of her own way long enough to just tell the story, it was absolutely enthralling. I loved her Thomas Cromwell and King Henry is so intriguing. But so much of the time she put down the thread of the story and the characters to wax (somewhat) poetic about lord only knows what.At the end of this book I simultaneously wanted to pick up the next one and take a reading vacation. I was exhausted and exhilarated all at once (and that's not entirely a compliment).I will probably pick up Bring Up the Bodies, but not until I've had a bit of a break to distance myself from the exhaustion and only the exhilaration remains.
2 While the story is very interesting, I am incensed at Mantel's writing style.  She purposely obfuscates which character is speaking so that Sit is very difficult at times to discern who the speaker is.  I find this rather infuriating.
3 I'm having difficulty getting through this novel although it is my favorite period in English history.  I feel the need to really concentrate and set aside a good portion of time to read.  It is not a novel to casually pick up and put down.  It takes concentration and committment to continue.  I'll do it and then move on to 'Bring up the Bodies'.
1 Unreadable. The writing alone will give you a headache trying to figure out who &#34;he&#34; is or who is speaking or thinking. I am struggling to get through it and be sure and mark table of characters. You will need that.
5 Don't take it on vacation, or you won't do justice to either the travel or the story.  This is a book you want to rush back to.  It's an all-day read.  & there's a sequel.
5 I had this book recommended to me by a dear English friend who is well read and well educated and I have found it a most interesting, entertaining and educational book.  I had no idea what the book was about and as I got into it and realized what the subject matter was, I was enthralled.  I do not know that much about Tudor history and this book makes me want to learn more.  It is well written and uses a format that I have not encountered before.  It took me a little while to follow it, but once one gets the hang of it, it is a great way to tell a story.  Highly recommended!
2 After hearing so much about this historical novel, I was expecting something great. Instead I found just a mediocre attempt to put words in the mouths of Cromwell and others surrounding Henry VIII. Is anyone else annoyed by these imaginary conversations masquerading as history? If I wanted that, I prefer Showtimes's &#34;The Tudors.&#34;
1 I was really looking forward to this book.  It lost me after about 100 pages.  Life is too short to struggle!
1 I read every book I buy, but this was sheer torture to get through.  Most of my reading is from the Tudor era.  Since I read for enjoyment I wish that I had not purchased this book.  Hilary Mantel is a great author but this book just didn't get it for me. I will not be purchasing the sequel.
4 interesting.
4 Set against the backdrop of Henry VIII's reign (and two of his many marriages), Wolf Hall is in fact a character study about  Thomas Cromwell, Henry's chief minister and, some would argue, the greatest schemer of his time.Being a work of fiction, Wolf Hall is not really about the 'big' facts of history (you can check wikipedia for those). Quite the contrary, this is about bringing a famous character to life and trying to guess what he was really thinking all the time.Mantel depicts Cromwell as a fundamentally 'good' character, whereas she's far less generous with an equally famous one: Thomas More. This, in itself, is an intriguing aspect of the novel as other works of fiction (not to mention some historians) imply the opposite.Cromwell is depicted as a free-thinking, deeply modern man (perhaps a bit irrealistically so) whereas More is seen as a cunning obscurantist, one that makes a sport out of burning heretics.In reality, most likely both characters were too complex to be reduced to a mere "good vs. bad" dichotomy (besides, both were a product of their own time, which might affect the very idea of what 'good' or 'bad' mean) but, this being a novel, you can take them at face values and simply enjoy the ride.Wolf Hall is not an action-packed novel but if the prospect of spending a few hours in 16th century England, in the company of an intriguing character and amidst brilliant dialogues, is of some interest to you...well, you should pick this book.
5 I read this in the kindle edition which did not include a list of the main protagonists, which can be found in the book edition, and consequently I found it difficult at the beginning to work out who was 'speaking'. Once I was used to the style of writing, I couldn't put it down. Hilary Mantel's descriptions of time and place are exquisite.
5 This remarkable book creates a vivid and interesting picture of life under Henry VIII.  It has an unusual take on many familiar historical figures, including Thomas More, Katherine of Aragon, the entire Boleyn family, Wolsey, and the king himself.  And, as everyone now knows, it provides a surprising and moving portrait of Thomas Cromwell, a man not well respected by the general public but about whom historians currently have great things to say. It made me want to learn much more about Tudor England and the role of Cromwell in the modernization of the country. I enjoyed it a great deal, and look forward to the sequel.  Still, I would give it four-and-a-half stars rather than five, if Amazon would only let me.  First, the portrait of Cromwell is too unrelievedly positive.  The impression one gets from the book is that his immense power is due simply to his intelligence, flexibility, and integrity.  The ruthlessness of which the historians speak is not dramatized in any meaningful way.  Second, the treatment of religion in the book is cynical and unconvincing.  The reader has little basis for believing or understanding either More's martyrdom for his opposition to the king's divorce, or Cromwell's willingness to run enormous personal risks in order to promote the interests of Protestants.  Obviously there were many actions taken during this era--and other eras--in the name of religion, which were really motivated by economic or political factors, but I doubt that it was true to the extent that this book seems to assume.  Third, the writing is often slack.  Material is included because it is needed for filler or explanation, not because it plays an essential role in telling the story.  This is much less true in Wolf Hall than in A Place of Greater Safety, but as literature both novels fall short of such masterpieces of historical reimagining as The Fifth Queen (Ford Madox Ford) and The Death of the Fox (George Garrett).
3 The story line (Henry VIII, the Bolens, etc) is an interesting one. Ms Mantel won a literary award for the book, apparently for her unique style, but I found her style to be distracting. The unusual use of pronouns and flashbacks had me often looking back for a page or two to learn what was going on and/or who was involved. The book is also rather slow-paced.All in all, I finished it, but I don't recommend it.
2 I love the period and the material, but this book is so hard to understand.  I am about 1/5 through it and I'm not sure I will make it to the end.  I totally agree with the other reviews stating the reader has difficulty knowing who is talking when "he" is used.  I have to re-read and re-read it to understand who is talking.  The writing style is also hard for me to follow.  Every time I pick up the book to read it, it is nearly impossible for me remember what was happening.  This book is just not a smooth, easy read.  I doubt I will read the sequel--I don't want to work this hard to enjoy a book.
4 I am a Tudor family independent scholar and voraciously read everything about them and the England of that time that I can.  Every review or ad I read about Wolf Hall was that it was about Anne Boelyn.  Great!  It won an award.  Great!It's actually a beautifully written book about Thomas Cromwell. I'm interested in his life story, too, and I don't know why reviewers would be reluctant to talk about him when talking about the book.  (I also may not be reading those reviews that do.)The writing style --- in a present tense that is sometimes hard to follow --- redeems itself with wonderful imagery and startling metaphors.  The font of the book made for a difficult read, also, and it had very little punctuation, causing some of the longer sentences to require a re-read.For a lover of this period of English history, I would highly recommend this book.  Anne Boelyn and her sister, Mary, are in there, along with a biography of Cromwell that is brilliantly written. If one is not familiar with these people surrounding Henry VIII, Cromwell, and the Boelyns, I think it would be a difficult read.  Having said that, one could certainly let go of the genealogy and timeline and just enjoy reading some truly startling and witty writing.Also, Wolf Hall is a place where Henry and Anne lived.  The name of the place comes up maybe three or four times in the entire book.  Hence, I don't understand how the author arrived at the title.I basically had a real love-dislike relationship with this book.
5 This is the perfect beach read for people who do not like beaches, since it will remove you efficiently and absolutely from any beach upon which you are unfortunate enough to find yourself washed up.  Mantel's reconstruction of Tudor England: how things looked, how they felt, how they tasted, how both the secular and the vicious religious politics functioned (the latter of which, together with it's embodiment, Thomas More, she despises and loaths), is completely absorbing.It must be said, however, that Wolf Hall is not _quite_ a convincing reconstruction of all of Tudor England.  Mantel is clearly in love with her version of Thomas Cromwell, who is just a bit too good to be true: a thinking woman's daydream. I doubt that any man - gay or straight - could have invented him.It will be interesting to see how the story is carried forward to its grisly end, in the promised sequel.  I will be first in line for a copy.P.S., The publisher's blurb for the american edition, which you can see on its amazon page, is crass, ludicrous, and completely misleading (though I don't imagine that Hilary Mantel finds it so funny).
2 OK, it is a great, well-crafted book full of profound and subtle insight and rich in the recreation of the tapestry of life in England 500 years ago. ... So, I still give it only two stars because I just flat didn't enjoy reading it and forced myself to finish.The fault is probably mine, not Mantel's. She's a compelling figure herself and a great writer, but for me (and many others), the narrative didn't pull me along and instead seemed like a never-ending series of conversations -- some profound, some trite -- and nothing really ever happened, or at least when it did -- even Thomas More's execution -- it was sort of lifeless. (It was really going over my head. I know that.)That's said, Mantel Cromwell painted a compelling portrait of Thomas Cromwell and showed his human side in his love for his family and his kindness to animals and those of lower station and meaner circumstances. But, for me (many would disagree, obviously), there was little ebb and flow, no peaks and valleys -- it was sort of like trying to read through a laudanum-induced haze. And even though when I sometimes went back and reread sections/pages/paragraphs and sometimes was amazed at what I had missed, I thought, "well, I just need to be a better reader!" So, whose fault was that? ... mine or the author's? It was probably mine; too many others got it the first time. But then, readers get to form their own opinions and mine is 2 stars -- based on my enjoyment of the book.
1 I checked out "Wolf Hall" from my local library after listening to an interview with the author followed by a glowing review on NPR.  Big mistake.The book is tedious and confusing.  The author packed about 200 or so pages into over 500 pages.Tedious:  It just goes on and on and on and on . . .Confusing:  It jumps from one period to another leaving the reader wondering if one is reading about now or a flashback or looking into the future.  The author uses the dialogue device in which the characters talk to each other  then she intersperses the inner thoughts of the characters within the dialogue.  I rarely could determine who was speaking to whom . . . or was the dialogue one of the characters thinking to him/herself?I plodded through it looking for something by which to recommend it but never found it.I have "Bring Up The Bodies" on reserve at my library.  I'll read the first 100 pages but if it's the same as "Wolf Hall," that's all.
5 I'm not a usual fan of historical biography, but I was tempted after catching up with The Tudors.  I was far from disappointed!  This was the essence of showing, not telling, and really brought the age and the man alive. It was quite well-written, but it is in an unusual, possibly unique, style that delivers detail and nuance through an almost first person narration of observation. I'm looking forward to more....
5 Knowing how Cromwell's life ends I thought I would be bored, and was suprised to really enjoy the book. Initially I found Hilary Mantel's writing style a bit hard to get into, rather dream like, but I was soon utterly absorbed. Mantel writes about every day English life and court life in the 1600's as though she had experienced it, a great feat. Highly recommend and looking forward to second book.
5 I've been reading a lot of historical fiction lately - my latest thing I guess - and came upon this book from the recommendations I'm sent.  Before downloading the book I read a lot of the reviews because that's one of the ways I decide which books I'd like to read.Thomas Cromwell was someone I really wasn't familiar with except for the fact I knew he had something to do with King Henry VIII.  According to the book, he was quite an interesting character.I'm almost finished with this book and am going to download the sequel right away.  This book is quite long and it's taken me over a month to read.  Some of the dialog I've had to re-read to gain the meaning but other than that I'm enjoying this novel.  Since I'm not too familiar with British history I don't now if it's factual or not.  I have to believe this author did her homework and produced facts along with fiction.  Regardless of that point, if you enjoy history and getting to know a lot of different characters, you'll enjoy this book.One thing that is kind of confusing are the names.  At this point in time it seems like everyone was called Thomas, Henry, Katherine or Mary.  Sometime you may have to re-read a passage to figure out what "Thomas" is being talked about or talking with.  I've figured out since the book is written in Thomas Cromwell's "voice" the author refers to "he" when there's conversation.  Atleast I know it's Thomas Cromwell talking instead of a different Thomas.This isn't a book you can pick up and read if you only have a small amount of time to relax.  This book is going to take some concentration and attention to really appreciate it.  Consider this book as your reward at the end of a long day to sit back and enjoy a good read.
4 This book is a tome.  it is very long and it is set in England from about 1529 to 1534.  All the real historical characters are here like Henry VIII, his first wife Katherine, Anne Boleyn, Thomas Cromwell, Thomas More and Henry VIII's advisor Wolsley.  I'm sure that the accuracy of the true historical happenings extends throughout the book as it is written by an author who knows her time and her characters very well.  This time in England was a very unsettling time for everyone.  Henry VIII is in a long battle with the church trying to get his first marriage annulled.  Reformation is just beginning at this time.  The title is a bit confusing because nothing does take place at Wolf Hall.  Wolf Hall is the home seat of the Seymours, and they show up on occasion throughout the book, but again they do not play any leading role.  I think the novel is beautifully written and a very good picture of Tudor England.  Not for nothing was this named a very significant novel of 2009.  Ms. Mantel has constructed her own world in this book and reading the book compels the reader into it.
4 I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  I am a big fan of Tudor fiction and this book is among some of the best I have read.  Richly detailed, the settings and characters leap off the page.  I highly recommend it for fans of historical fiction!
3 I was really looking forward to reading this book since I missed it on its initial publication for some reason.  Perhaps that level of expectation, and having recently gone through the BBC "The Tudors" miniseries, led to my disappointment.  The author's writing style seems self-consciously literary at times, including an annoying habit of using quotation marks inconsistently and not clearly identifying who is speaking (or sometimes thinking).  Combine that with the historically accurate habit of identifying single characters by multiple monikers - Charles Brandon and the Duke of Suffolk for example - and the tangled relations among the characters, it was not a great book for nighttime or other distracted reading.  You really do need to draw a picture.  The author does provide a "cast of characters" listing and a couple lineage charts to help.  Anyway, this was not a book that I couldn't put down or raced through.  I'm currently reading "Heartstone", a fictional mystery set in later Tudor times, which I find every bit as interesting from an historical perspective, but much more interesting from a pleasure read perspective.
5 Mantel is a terrific writer  and offers a new take on the times of Henry 8.  I like the use of humor: she's very good at it.  And Cromwell comes alive.  One of the best historicals ever
4 This book is very well written and I have found it fascinating to read.  Even though Henry VIII has had his story told so many times this is a very different way of portraying the story.
1 and I became interested in this book. But it seems to basically be guilty of the sins Hitchens claims &#8220;A Man for All Seasons&#8221; was. It glorifies Cromwell while demonizing More. And it disregards facts to do so. Cromwell presided over many,many more executions than More. And Cromwell was no agnostic, as he is presented by Mantel. He was a committed protestant.
4 I enjoy history and this is the first book by Hilary Mantel that I have read. The author is an excellent writer who made the life of Thomas Cromwell  and his role in the reign of Henry VIII and the English reformation come alive.  I like a book that I both learn something from and also enjoy 'the read'. At times the dialogue became difficult to assign to a character-- who was speaking.  That is why the 4 star rating.  I have downloaded another book by her 'Bring up the Bodies ' so I do like her as an author.
4 Enjoyed the book but at times can be very slow and plodding.  I recommend.
1 I got too irritated with Mantel's artsy tropes like her bizarre and confusing use of pronouns.  Why should I punish myself like this?  I would appreciate a good story well told.  That is not Wolf Hall.  Wolf Hall is a good story poorly told.  It is pretentious, confusing, and uninspiring.If you want to read a really good piece on Cromwell and his era read Henry VIII by William Shakespeare.
4 "Wolf Hall" is more the story of that guy who kills the cow than the big shot who eats the steaks.Hilary Mantel's time and setting are the oft-told English Court of King Henry VIII.And while the randy and capricious Harry (is their a supreme ruler who is not?) and his short-lived wife Ann Boleyn come in for some decent portraiture, "Wolf Hall" is the story of an influential aide to both, Thomas Cromwell.Although we don't watch the goings-on at court unfold from Cromwell's point of view, Ms. Mantel uses him as guide and compass through the seven or so years during which Ann Boleyn worked her whiles on Henry who extricated England from the Rome's influence to marry her.You know, probably, how she failed to deliver a much-desired heir, cheated sexually, and lost her head as a result, but this book does not venture there.It ventures instead, early into the young Cromwell's life is a low-born country boy whose father comes with in a hair's-length of beating him to death before deciding to strike out on his own.He is a seasoned fellow with no small measure of luck who becomes a good soldier in France and better banker in Italy before returning to England where his cause is taken up by one influential Cardinal Wolsey whom he serves in turn.The first parts of the book detail Wolsey's fall from grace at court and his simultaneous death at the news of it. The latter parts render Cromwell's rise at court as someone useful to an archly-rendered Boleyn, and later Henry for his skill as bureaucrat (of a pre-modern kind).This skill primarily involves the undoing and capital punishment of one Thomas More, the Holy See's top dog in England.But it entails all manner of "fixing" including arranged marriages, unarranged ones, deaths at the hand of the state, the purchase of properties for the crown,, and other things those of us born in a modern democracy have such a hard time wrapping our minds around.And that's what makes it most fun. There is also the usual confusing family politics of succession (the son of the deposed King borne by his second wife and shunted in The Tower, etc.) rendered no less intelligible by this otherwise superb writer.Cromwell is sympathetic even if he is prized mostly for certain hard-assed qualities and his talent for using his low-birth and war pedigree to intimidate gentle ladies and men.The fact he is something of state-sponsored monster is obscured by the fact we're rooting for him. Cromwell takes in all manner of folk needing help and turns them out of the house on varying paths to prosperity.He represents something of a democratic green shoot growing the golden brown wheat fields of aristocracy.Here's one of highwayscribery's favorite lines about Cromwell regarding his close alliance with Ann Boleyn; who was nothing if not the wrecker of Henry's first marriage with Spain's Katherine of Aragon."He sighs. It's not much, to know that all the merry young whores are on your side. All the kept women, and the runaway daughters."Mantel's greatest triumphs are the elevation of Cromwell as archetype for the true governmental mechanic (think Rahm Emmanuel), and her making believable the goings-on behind closed doors, the stuff of closed council, as she paints them."The fate of peoples," the author writes, "is made like this, two men in small rooms. Forget the coronations, the conclaves of cardinals, the pomp and processions. This is how the world changes: a counter pushed across a table, a pen stroke that alters the force of a phrase, a woman's sigh as she passes and leaves on the air a trail of orange flower or rose water; her hand pulling close the bed curtain, the discreet sigh of flesh against flesh.""Wolf Hall" is the most recent winner of the British Commonwealth's "Man Booker Award," useful as far as such things go, which in this case is pretty far.The writing is economical, the transitional passages are deft and colorful, her application of language is economical but rich, her focus never so tight as to lose that English subtlety for telling you a story with a point not too obvious.It's a big literature, fancy-schmanzy in reach and range, all the while being a page-turner that sheds light on an important, if under-celebrated, historical figure.
4 Readers who enjoy historical fiction will experience delight from Hilary Mantel's finely written novel, Wolf Hall. Almost six hundred pages and packed with a giant cast of characters, the novel is set during the reign of England's King Henry VIII. The protagonist is Thomas Cromwell, who comes across as a more sympathetic and complex character than is described in history. Those readers whose knowledge of Cromwell and Thomas More comes from the Robert Bolt play, A Man For All Seasons, will find a darker More and a kinder Cromwell in Wolf Hall. Those readers who enjoy this period of history will find an easier time keeping track of the characters; others may need to keep referring back to the list of characters to keep the players straight. The political machinations are presented with a liveliness that makes an exciting historical time seem contemporary, while remaining true to its period.Rating: Four-star (Highly Recommended)
3 I read this as a preliminary to Bring Up the Bodies, and it took a bit of a slog to get through it. But it was worth it to set the background, and I found &#34;Bodies&#34; to be a really good read.
4 In desperate need of a male heir to solidify the Tudor dynasty, King Henry VIII sought to annul his marriage to Katherine of Aragon so he could wed Anne Boleyn. As the Pope, for political reasons, would not grant the necessary dispensation, Henry's solution was to make the English church independent from Rome. A major player in these monumental events was Thomas Cromwell, a blacksmith's son who rose to a position second in power in England only to the King himself.Hilary Mantel tells the story of these turbulent times in the third person, but through Cromwell's eyes. The novel begins with a brief scene from Cromwell's harsh childhood in 1500, then shifts to 1527 when Cromwell is an adviser to Cardinal Thomas Wolsey. Cromwell manages to remain on good terms with Henry even as Wolsey incurs the King's disfavor. He adeptly transitions from his position as adviser to the Cardinal to a role as council to the King. Aristocrats who at first look upon the blacksmith's son with disdain soon grudgingly find him useful, then eventually accept his wise leadership. The novel ends in July 1535 when the execution of Sir Thomas More leaves Thomas Cromwell unchallenged and in full control of Henry's affairs.Wolf Hall is a novel about people, not events. Late in the novel, Mantel states her thesis:&#34;The fate of peoples is made like this, two men in small rooms. Forget the coronations, the conclaves of cardinals, the pomp and processions. This is how the world changes: a counter pushed across the table, a pen stroke that alters the force of a phrase, a woman's sigh as she passes and leaves on the air a trail of orange flower or rose water; her hand pulling close the bed curtains, the discreet sigh of flesh against flesh.&#34;The dozens of characters in Wolf Hall each come convincingly alive: Anne Boleyn, seductive, vicious, but, above all, ambitious; her sister Mary Boleyn, laughing, promiscuous, and disarmingly honest; Sir Thomas More, worshiping himself as a martyr even before his death; and Henry himself, a vacillating overgrown adolescent with oversized appetites but the glimmerings of wisdom and humanity.The novel sparkles with intelligent dialog and wit. It also gives some sense of the harshness of life when plagues were an almost annual event and public executions were considered entertainment. Most of all, however, it is a measured, convincing, and captivating look at &#34;how the world changes.&#34;
5 History textbooks usually show the big picture, events and people from a disinterested 30,000 foot perspective.  Wolf Hall tells the fascinating story of Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn from the point of view of one of its most interesting and important characters, Thomas Cromwell.  I'm looking forward to the next installment.
1 The story is told in dialogue.  I found it impossible to figure out what was supposed to be going on
5 I loved this book. However, the reviewers who disliked the heavy use of the pronoun &#34;he&#34; definitely had a point. It took some getting used to. The book was gripping, however, particularly when Thomas More was being interrogated.
3 I have not read this book.  It was recommended by my husband, but I haven't gotten to it yet.  thanks
1 My book club selected this for the month of December because it was popular and had good reviews on Amazon.  The vast majority of our group didn't even finish it and found it sloppily written and boring.  I've read maybe 7-10 other books of this same genre and loved them but didn't make it past 100 pages of Wolf Hall.  Very disappointed!!
4 Hilary Mantel sets out to debunk the extremely bad press which often haunts Thomas Cromwell's memory. Her research and imagination erect an admirable, disciplined character possessed by a man navigating a dangerous period in Henry the Eighth's and England's religious history. Mantel's Cromwell succeeds through a combination of intelligence, diplomacy and connections with an unusual variety of people. What I found particularly enjoyable was her depiction of the man as capable of wisdom and delicacy in his private life as well. As I have read many accounts of the creation of the the Church of England, I found this version to contain a surprising number of fresh details both historical and cultural that other fiction writers have missed. An enjoyable revisit to an interesting time!
1 This era is my favorite, so I am disappointed to say that I would not encourage anyone to try to read this book. The disappointment is that this book is unreadable.  The choice of a passive voice leaves the reader confused and struggling to follow.  I can't image how the committee felt this poor writing, and worse editing, deserved the Mann Booker.
5 Wolf Hall is a remarkable historical Novel. I love history but seldom have the time to read fiction. I'm glad I read this. In the book, we get a wonderful view of Tudor England.  Like people in real life, the folks who we meet in Wolf Hall have many sides. I think what drew me into the story the most was the political intrigue.I had never read this author before and found the writing style extremely gifted.Highly recommended.- Susanna K. Hutcheson
5 This is the best book I have read in a long time.  Amazingly deft characterization and muscular, evocative writing.  Reading this book made me feel like I knew these historical characters--their desires, intrigues, dreams and nightmares--as well as my colleagues at work.  It is a travesty that the average rating of this book is three and a half stars.  Ten stars would be insufficient.
3 If you don't have a grasp of the history of the times written about in this massive tome you could easily get lost.  Fortunately for me I have read enough history to have an understanding and knowledge of that period of history and found this difficult going.  The character development of Thomas Cromwell is strong but some of the others lack depth and color.  Sad - it could have been wonderful!
2 Sorry, I know this book got some great reviews and historical fiction is one of my favorites, but I could never really get into to this book.  I think because I had a hard time following who was narrating.  I would think I had it and then it would change. Also, the story moved very slow for me.
5 I had to overcome my distaste for some cultures' fascination with royalty before I could bring myself to read Wolf Hall.  I'm glad I did, because it is a very entertaining and informative piece of historical fiction.  I plan to read the rest of the trilogy, and will probably read Ms. Mantel's other books too.
1 I've been an avid reader my entire life, I love classics and historical fiction. I'm very educated and have read books in 3 different languages and rarely have I found a book completely unreadable. The prose is horribly choppy and hard to follow, it's written in fairly modern English (which I could have gotten past if I could understand what was going on half the time. My biggest regret is that I bought this book with the intention of it being airplane reading for a trip, so by the time I realized how much I disliked it, it was too late to get a refund.
4 This book is enormous in scope.  I can't even hazard a guess at how many thousands of hours of research must have gone into this novel.  Although it is a work of fiction, it is based on fact:  the places, events and many of the characters in this book were part and parcel of 16th century England.Reading this book required a little bit of effort on my part because it is so long and of such a serious tone.  There are bits of humor in the dialogue, but the story is a sober one:  plagues, politics, wars and the losses of loved ones are threaded throughout this novel, so I didn't find myself chuckling much during my reading.Still, the characters in this book are masterfully portrayed and the story is fascinating and educational to boot.  Reading this book required concentration on my part (and keeping a list of the characters handy--there are a lots of different Thomases, Annes and Marys in this book), but I certainly did enjoy it.  I didn't find it to be the kind of book that I would recommend for light summer reading.  I would describe this book as more of a long winter night kind of novel.
5 A fascinating alternative portrayal of Thomas Cromwell.  Much has to be said for an author who can make a reader truly be sympathetic with an usually maligned historical character. The scenes between him and Wolsey were truly touching, and what is remarkable is that it was totally credible. The dialogues and repartees between him and Anne and him and More were just so incredibly sharp and funny.  The supporting cast is just as vividly drawn.  And even though the book had incredible breadth in covering everything from politics and religious strife to what makes a well dressed table, the book felt so intimate and immediate that you never lost the sense of being part of the story.  A truly original story - definitely not just another King Henry story - You will find yourself reading well into the night.
3 Wolf Hall isn't really my sort of novel. The piece is basically a thorough history of England throughout the Tudor era. The prose is written in a unique style - almost flighty and humourous, yet with subtle and skillful analogies flowing throughout.Anyway, like I said because Wolf Hall isn't my thing I have little to say, although for me to read a 600+ page monster in three days, when its not something I'm totally into suggests a skilful author...
4 Enjoyed this book ... sort of hard to follow who is speaking or being spoken to.  Good story line but I wish it had finished his life.
4 I did enjoy this book and it was a surprisingly quick read. Henry VIII fans be warned - there is very little interaction with the king himself.The story follows Thomas Cromwell, it's about the fixers/spin doctors (yes they were alive and kicking back then) and the back room maneuvers of those who influenced and shaped both policy and history.I like that she didn't demonize Cardinal Wolsey or use a saintly persona, usually given to Thomas Moore.I'm a Brit, my high-school history syllabus was the Tudors & Stuarts and I was never taken in by the general impressions of these characters - nobody achieved that level in a Tudor court without being a very complex and street-wise personality.Ms Mantel has given her characters full, rounded and most of all believable personalities.I've heard that there is a next book but haven't heard when it will be released.
2 I picked up this book based on all the hype but I must admit I am baffled by it's popularity. It is People Magazine literature waiting to become a TV movie as far as I am concerned. Actually I guess I am not all that baffled after all.....
5 So much intelligence went into the writing although it is hard to understand why she makes it so hard to know at times which of the &#34;Thomas&#34; is speaking.  Booker Prize justly rewarded.
5 I'm going to keep this simple:  If you're looking for a great read, this is it.  It's well-written, historical fiction at its very best.  I was drawn in from the first page and sad (at the end of the 2nd book in the series: &#34;Bring Up The Bodies&#34;) when it drew to a close.  I anticipate that a third book to close the trilogy will be forthcoming and equally as well done.
5 I rarely write Amazon reviews; my opinion is "just, like, (my) opinion, man" and does not need to be broadcast.  But after reading so many disparaging reviews of Wolf Hall, I must defend it.Is this a broad narrative about the Tudor family? NO.  Does the author sometimes use ambiguous pronouns?  YES.  Use your brains, think about who would be saying what OR simply enjoy the ambiguity.  It's not a play, it's not a factual history, but a very moving literary drama about Thomas Cromwell and his role during Henry VIII's attempts to divorce Katherine of Aragon.Again, if you want a straight-forward narrative or a history, this is not the book for you.  If you want a quality piece of literature with memorable characters and a writing technique that, I believe, sounds natural and magnificently maintains a sort of dual-narration (Thomas's POV + an outside speaker) ... then buy it and you will be pleased.
2 I really wanted to like this book because I love this period of history ( England during the time of Henry VIII ), but I found the writing style annoying.
3 I really liked this story. What a fascinating era. Thomas Cromwell, the central character of the novel, is an interesting and complex man.However, I did not like the author's style of writing. Her use of pronouns was annoying. There were too many of them. Often I did not know to whom &#34;he&#34; was referring. The use of quotes seemed inconsistent. Some times when a character was speaking, there would be quotes. Other times not. Finally the English used throughout most of the book seemed to be written to mimic the way English was written and spoke during the Tudor era.
5 The uncanny centerpiece of Hilary Mantel's absorbing historical novel, "Wolf Hall," is Sir Thomas Cromwell, a figure of ill repute who ascended the ranks of Tudor England by supposedly manipulating the papacy and the bluebloods.  In this year's Man Booker Prize winning novel, however, the conniving miscreant of stage plays like Robert Bolt's "A Man for All Seasons" and the much more popular television series "The Tudors," reverses his role from a warty villain of monochromatic angles into a sympathetic character of stunning complexities, tracing his life from a forlorn childhood to his stint as the cunning operator behind the English Reformation.While Sir Thomas More, the jaded utopian dreamer who fell under the blade for refusing to renounce the tenets of his faith, continues to be eulogized as a man of wisdom and morals; Cromwell, the minister who convinces Anne Boleyn into marrying Henry VIII, is stained by historical accounts as a shady bureaucrat shorn of scruples.  But Ms. Mantel here appears to reconstruct a rosier version of his image, and alternatively portrays a decent person who comes off as genial and intriguing.  This Cromwell is a self-made man, a hero chiseled with contours that trail many unexpected turns in this ingenious retelling of an olden England steeped in the lore of fantasy and history.Hilary Mantel isn't new to reupholstering some of history's most undesirable characters.  In her 1992 novel "A Place of Greater Safety," she cloaks the sinister Jacobin leader Franois Robespierre in a garb that sheds light into his inquests on the morality of power.  In "Wolf Hall," she accomplishes a similar feat with Sir Thomas Cromwell, portraying him as ambitious and servile, privy to the whims and desires of ye olde high society while capitalizing on the tense connections between church and state.  Gifted with a facility for languages, politics, the humanities, and money-making, Thomas is known to society as "an ingenious man," a polymath who "has the whole of the New Testament by heart...the very man if an argument about God breaks out...the man to cut through some legal entanglement that's ensnared you for three generations...he can converse with you about the Caesars or get you Venetian glassware at a very reasonable rate.  Nobody can outtalk him, if he wants to talk.  Nobody can better keep their head, when markets are falling and weeping men are standing on the street tearing up letters of credit."Clearly, this description only slightly resembles the kind of Thomas Cromwell depicted as a man born "with an aptitude for ruin and destruction." However, if Mantel's narrative is anything to go by, the minister cuts as an honorable and urbane character--a dignified person thrown into a jumble of nobles and clergymen wallowing about in their puddle of lies, spies, and decapitations.  His cunning is therefore a necessary survival tactic--to thrive in this elaborate Machiavellian game, Cromwell must be calculating in his actions, measuring the consequences of his administration against the religious schisms and societal struggles that threaten to overthrow order in Tudor England.Thus, a man like Cromwell, who is entrusted with the tasks of maneuvering the hierarchies of power, must have a far more colorful story to tell than the workaday, two-dimensional authority he is commonly portrayed to be.  At the beginning of the novel, the reader is, in fact, entreated to a substantial portion of his early life.  His father, a blacksmith, was a violent drunk who beat him repeatedly, as if he were "a sheet of metal." Upon turning fourteen, he ran away to mainland Europe, where he stayed for more than a decade while learning various languages and trades.  He then returns to London as a financier and a lawyer.  During his mid-thirties, he becomes an adviser to Cardinal Wolsley, the lord chancellor of Henry VIII, and rubs shoulders against bigwigs like the king of France and Thomas More, a sinister Catholic who comes across as a superficially pious sycophant with an axe to grind against blameless Protestants.Although Henry's court is remembered as one of the most glamorous in English history, it is also one steeped in a never-ending list of scandals and infamy.  History informs us that the king was discontent with his betrothed, Katherine of Aragon, after he sets his sights for the lovely though disreputable Anne Boleyn.  And history reminds us too that it was this same affair that tipped the scales in Cromwell's favor.  Since Wolsley hadn't yet obtained an annulment for the King, he was dismissed, and passed away a year later.After the cardinal's death, Cromwell is appointed as a minister to Henry and becomes an indispensable chess master in the King's dirty game of religion and politics.  He not only orchestrated the laws that eventually bore the English Reformation.  By orienting himself with the nobiliary, he too was instrumental in moving around several prominent figures at the king's behest: as an arbitrator, he was chosen to persuade the Queen to relocate from his castle -prison; as the King's loyal observer, he sharply looks out for the monarch's next fling, Jane Seymour, after the Boleyn girl becomes a tiresome welt.  No doubt he made many enemies, but his shrewdness effectively made him the second most powerful man in England.  At one point, even the Duke of Suffolk tells him, "You are everything now."While it remains unlikely that the Thomas Cromwell of this novel resembled anything like history's flesh-and-blood minister, what Ms. Mantel does with him creates a passionate, intelligent, and humane portrait of this essentially controversial character.  Early on, we are shown his endearing capacity to love his wife and children.  During his tenure as assistant to Cardinal Wolsley, he displays a rare kindness to the disgraced clergyman.  And even as that self-important Catholic, Thomas More, had once wronged him by sending his Protestant friends to the auto-da-f&eacute;, Cromwell continues to seek a way out for him even as the former's reputation had been blackened by the King.Curiously enough, the story ends not with Anne Boleyn and Thomas Cromwell's classic demise, but rather with a pensive hero distantly looking on at an England "always remaking itself."  While this conclusion is mystifying for a character who broke a lot of eggs, it does provide some closure to a story about the timeless, crucial issues of relationships, power, politics, and religion.  That the author alters her idiom from the day's Shakespearean vernacular to a modern, perfumed English prose efficiently bridges the epoch's intrigues to the 21st century reader.  One minor quibble though: Mantel tends to scatter a lot of ambiguous "he"s and "his"es, all apparently revolving around Mr. Cromwell. While initially annoying to grammar sticklers, one does eventually get used to it.  Petty reservations aside, Hilary Mantel's "Wolf Hall" is ultimately a spellbinding read, a modern novel rich with the elements of history and character that beautifully captures the essence of Tudor England.
3 if you like anne boylen you may like this. problem is it was done before by more interesting writers.  it is a hard read. hard to figure out who is talking and when is it thomas cromwell or anne or who?  it may have won the booker prize since the english love their history but i would recommed the tv show the tudors.
2 After reading the first chapter, I decided to move to page 55 and start after Cromwell grew up, hoping that the narative would be more straight-forward. Unfortunately, I was still struggling with who was speaking to whom. I finally decided to assume that the speaker was always talking to Cromwell, even though the author did not identify it as such.I finally gave up reading the book and jumped on Amazon to see what others had to say. Nice to know that I wasn't the only one who could not figure out what was going on. It was like walking into a private conversation that was already in process and trying to understand what the people were discussing. Why would an author with so much knowledge of the period, and such an interesting period at that, use a confusing story-telling method? And why didn't the editors suggest something different?So thanks to everyone who helped me understand that the confusion was not just me!
5 After reading the first chapter or two I found I could not put it down! Ergo I spent the holidays roaming Tudor England with Marlowe, King Henry et al and had a marvellous time. Next holiday I will return to Tudor England with Bring up the bodies. I'm already counting the days to my return
4 Great writing although it took awhile to get into it and understand the point of view from which the story is told.  Characters were well developed and the research background of the time is excellent.
2 Sorry, Ms. Mantel, but you lost me at "he".  Sentences like "Felled, dazed, silent, he has fallen" would have been easier for me to understand if you'd told me this was Thomas Cromwell, your protagonist.  I got so twisted by the overuse of this pronoun, I had to stop reading.  Picking up the audio version didn't make it any easier.  I could keep the female straight - weren't that many - but the men ... not a one.Back to basics for me.  Thankfully, "The Brothers Karamazov" was next on my list.  Now THAT one I could understand!
3 The early modern period is one of my very favourites in English literature and history, and both a good friend and my husband told me 'Wolf Hall' was the best novel they'd read in 2009. And of course, this was the Booker winner.So I came to read full of enthusiasm.Unfortunately, but perhaps partly due to my very high expectations, 'Wolf Hall' has not been a success for me. In particular, I found its language to be extremely frustrating: often uneven, and sometimes staggeringly clumsy.The confusing use of improperly distinguished pronouns throughout has already been noted by a lot of readers here, and I can't agree with those reviewers suggesting it is a deliberate stylistic device. It just seems a pointless authorial affectation to me. After all, what does it actually add to the text?But far worse is the dialogue, which is frequently ridiculously anachronistic, not just in vocabulary but also cadence.Whilst I appreciate that Mantel is trying to bring the period alive for modern readers unfamiliar with the era, the speech (and Cromwell's stream-of-consciousness interiority) is occasionally so badly expressed I found myself becoming exasperated with the whole novel. I just can't understand why Mantel has made such a mess of this when other elements of the story are so well-written, and when there are so many dramatic resources from the early modern period she could have drawn upon for reference.Populist historical novelists such as Philippa Gregory and Tracy Chevalier seem to negotiate the competing demands of verisimilitude and comprehension easily enough, so I was dismayed to see a Booker winner - with all the serious literary craft that implies - get it so very, very badly wrong.Would I recommend this book to my friends? Yes; if you disregard the language (an aspect which is important to me, but may not be to those less familiar with the literature of the period), it is an engaging page-turner for whiling away this dismal winter.Is it a worthy Booker winner? No, no, no. Compare it with the multi-layered satisfactions of Peter Carey's `Oscar and Lucinda', the sensitivity of `Staying On', the lyricism of `The Remains of the Day', or the importance of `Schindler's Ark', and you'll see why `Wolf Hall'- if it really is the best novel of the year - is proof that 2009 will not be a great literary vintage.
3 If you loathe the Catholic Church but thrive on conjecture, this is a book for you. I'm sure Anne Rice would love it. Though I enjoyed this book and Ms Mantel's style in writing it, it became obvious fairly early on that in her attempt to rehabilitate a resolutely dissolute man in English history she was grinding an ax of her own. She had a troubled childhood; Thomas Cromwell had a troubled childhood. After the departure of her father when she was twelve, she turned against the Catholic faith she had been born into. While her facts throughout her novel--and the reader would do well to keep in mind that it is fiction--are indeed well researched and accurate, her interpretation of events is entirely her own projection, filling out what historical facts do not bear out, such as Cromwell's noble and ardent affection and loyalty to Cardinal Wolsey, who Thomas More justifiably described as most corrupt. It is important to note the facts our authoress excludes as well. For instance, we don't read how Cromwell suborned perjury from Richard Rich at the trial of Sir Thomas More. She gives the impression that More actually was treasonous, never mind that he surrendered his Office rather than oppose the king. Her imposition of modern cultural sensibilities on this period disturbs the ballast of her ship and thereby drags down the story. Ms Mantel displays an acerbic sense of humor, which for the most part I appreciated for its assistance in carrying me through a heavily weighted book; however, there are just too many times when it becomes catty sniping and further degrades her noble attempt. One thing she does get right is that though King Henry's desire for divorce from Queen Katherine was initially motivated by the perceived need for a male heir so to avoid a relapse into civil war, it was not long before it morphed into an obsession to have a woman he could not otherwise have, Lady Anne Bolyne. He was willing to go to any lengths to possess her without violating her honor. In Cromwell he found a most clever man without scruples of any kind and the imagination to manipulate the law to achieve the king's desire. She has created an impossible task for herself in trying to make heroic the most despicable and unprincipled man to wear the chain of office of the Lord Chancellor of England.Her Cromwell would appear heroic in an Ayn Randian universe only. Happily, she is a much more talented writer than Ms Rand ever was. To accomplish her revisionist version of Master Cromwell, she writes Sir Thomas More as a privileged prig, as a humorless and painfully pietistic sadist and murderer, a man who placed his own conscience above the welfare of his country. She belies her own prejudice by accurately putting these words into Sir Thomas' mouth when speaking to Cromwell: "Perhaps your faith is for purchase.You would serve the Sultan if the price was right." She is intent, however, on impugning More's faith, anyone of any faith, for that matter. Sir Thomas admonished Master Cromwell upon his being sworn onto the King's Council that his duty was to advise the king on what he ought to do, not what he can do. More was a man with an adamantine sense of self, a man of conscience, which is to say the same thing. Of course, Thomas Cromwell had no conscience and had only contempt for anyone who did. In an act of pure fantasy, Ms Mantel attempts to construct a character, a self, for Cromwell, where simply none ever existed.Besides carrying the weight of her anti-Catholic bias, Ms Mantel apparently embraces modernity's adaptation of Machiavellian politics and places pragmatism and utilitarianism as the highest guiding principles. I have, thus, no inclination to read the next two installments in this trilogy.
1 At the urging of a friend, whom I respect, I bought this book but gave up after 120 pages.  I can't imagine what my friend found of interest in this poorly written and badly edited mess.  The history is so well known that only an exciting new look could be a success---this is not that book.  It is very dull and very hard to read, shifting about in time, to no point of plot, and is most confusing as to "he" is in many, many instances.  This book is published by a good house and one where a good editor should have used a hard blue pencil and not indulged this badly focused author.  What a waste of time.
5 A totally fascinating and thoroughly enjoyable read.  Discover Thomas Cromwell and Italian memorization methods, see how being in Florence had a great impact on the man.  Ponder how he lived the dilemma of being violent/non violent.  This is so much more than a great book:  a work of genius really.  Suffused with wit, humor and humanity; a treasure chest filled with gems about Cromwell, Wolsey, More, Henry VIII, Anne Boleyn...  And it wouldn't be surprising in the least if some of the book's scenes did in fact really happen, just the way Ms. Mantel describes them.  Not to be missed, a book that brilliantly transports us to a fascinating time in history, captivates us, makes us look forward to reading Bring Up The Bodies, and the sequel to the same...
3 I realize that I'm certainly in the minority with this less than stellar review.  I've read many, many, books about the Tudor reign of England.  I have set this book aside now, after a little over 200 pages. I may or may not go back to it.  Luckily, I'm familiar with the main players involved in the drama of King Henry VIII and his obsession with Anne Bolelyn so I knew who was who, however, I often didn't know who was speaking.  Obviously, this is the distinct style of writing by this author, but I found it distracting. So, bottom line for me?  It was just okay, not great, have read better regarding this subject matter, and frankly after all of the great reviews and the award that the book received, I expected a better read. Must just be me though, most people loved it.  I'm glad I waited and didn't pay the original price and now will not buy the sequel that just came out.
5 Despite my respect for the predictive power of excellence with the Booker Prize, I held off reading this one for awhile; mainly because I have very little interest in this period of history.  Though I have a general knowledge of the era, the revolving bedroom drama that is the reign of Henry VIII turned me off.  It turns out, that my judgment in this case was perhaps a bit unfair.  Ms. Mantel shows us a world that is in true religious upheaval while dealing with concerns both practical--royal succession--and personal--Henry's lust.  This makes for some very powerful reading.Ms. Mantel deserves a lot of credit for some good choices in putting together this novel.  Her first, best choice is having Thomas Cromwell as our narrator and guide.  He provides the perfect outsider view of events.  Even as he grows in power and influence, becoming a clever manipulator of events, his past and social status never allow him to become a true insider.  As we readers can never hope to be insiders either, it seems right to be seeing this world through his eyes.She also keeps the story focused by delving deeply into a comparatively short time--mostly from about 1529 - 1535--when Henry was trying to divorce Katherine and marry Anne Boleyn.  We see the fall of Cardinal Wolsey and Cromwell's willingness to stand by him which, because of his loyalty, gives him a chance to rise in Henry's service.  We see the fall of Thomas More, and the ultimate success Anne in achieving her marriage to Henry.  It turns out to be an engaging story.There are two small irritations in the novel, however.  First, is a strange use of the pronoun "he" in a narrative sense to refer almost strictly to Cromwell.  It takes some getting used to in the early part of the novel but seems more natural by the time the novel ends.  Second, which is almost unavoidable in a novel like this, is the barrage of people, names and titles that populate this story that no amount of flipping to the "cast of characters" list at the front is going to solve.  The saving grace here is that some characters stand out so strongly--Cromwell, of course, but also Anne, Henry, Katherine, Princess Mary, Mary Boleyn, and Thomas More--that we can sort of let the rest of minor characters wash over us.In the end, this is a novel with rare qualities these days: it has the length to dig deep, it has a cast of characters wide enough to populate a real imaginative world, and it has a story of energy despite its grounding in history.  This is an excellent novel.  I look forward to reading the next one.
5 There is wonderful writing here--but we all need to shout loud until Amazon pays its fair share of corporation tax. I really enjoyed this author's earlier books and if you did, why don't you log in and leave 10 more reviews like this today. It shouldn't just be people who can't afford a team of tax specialists who pay their fair share of tax. Sign that cheque or forever lose my respect and the respect, no doubt, of this very fine author.Amazon was happy to take your money, but is trying every trick in the book to avoid paying its dues back. This has got to stop.Amazon avoids UK taxes by reporting European sales through a Luxembourg-based unit, which allows it to pay a rate of less than 12% on foreign profits last year--less than half the average corporate income tax rate in its major markets. The company's United Kingdom website reported a turnover of 207m for 2011, but its tax bill was just 1.8m.This is not illegal. It is immoral.The other option, of course, is to visit a book shop.
1 I found this book to be terribly written and difficult to read.  There is virtually no plot just a plodding meandering of crappy writing.  How this won awards is beyond me.  Don't waste your time or money reading this.  One of the worse books I have read in a long time.
4 When one sets out to read a prize-winning novel [WOLF HALL:the 2009 Man Booker Award], his expectations are to enjoy a great book. The bar is set even higher when author Hilary Mantel's book was selected over past Man Booker winner A.S.Byatt(POSSESSION). Such acclaim often leads to disappointment: the work doesn't quite measure up. For nearly one hundred pages this was my response to WOLF HALL.  This book won a prestigious award? I just could not connect with Mantel's format, which seemed to me to be written almost in the fourth person. I felt I was viewing events unfold through campfire smoke and wondered, what's all the fuss about this book?  However, the smoke finally cleared and I became engaged in the story of Cromwell, his rise to power in the court of the megalomaniacal Henry VIII, and I encourage those who pick up WOLF HALL to stay the course. You'll find it worth the effort.There are reasons why it takes Mantel's novel so long to connect. Most notable is her use of the third person "he," from which she demands overtime, as the referent for the protagonist Thomas Cromwell; "he," the reader learns, is most frequently  Cromwell. But not always, and in a male-dominant environment, these "he's" sometimes lead to confusion. One often encounters a proper noun antecedent followed by the pronoun "he"; the first being one character, the pronoun, though, is Cromwell. Another hindrance is the number of characters Mantel crowds into her story. I checked the cast of characters in Shakepeare's HENRY VIII, and Shakespeare, who always loved a crowd, used two-thirds fewer characters to chronicle Henry's story than did Mantel in her telling of Cromwell's. After I finished the book, I noticed my copy had dogeared, worn pages in the prefatory "Cast of Characters" as I had to consult these pages countless times throughout the novel. The fact that many of the characters have the same names (there are no less than eleven "Thomas's") sends one pell-mell back to the Cast for clarification. Many characters, too, are referenced sometimes by name, sometimes by title (back you go). And the titles shift personages as characters die or their fortunes change. More confusion.One has to admire Mantel for taking on a subject that history, literature and the dramatic arts have "done to death," so to speak. What more could one do with such an oft-plumbed topic? But it is just what the novelist does with the characters that makes WOLF HALL a delight to read. Don't expect Mantel's Anne Boleyn to be that of Genevieve Bujold's Anne "Anne of the Thousand Days," nor Thomas More to be Paul Scofield's Sir Thomas in "A Man for all Seasons." Mantel portrays Anne as shrewish and conniving (Queen Katherine pegs her as "neither kind nor patient), a petulant scold who rolls the dice with her womb (and as history proves, loses). Mantel's Thomas More is a mean-spirited religious zealot. He belittles his wife in Latin in front of dinner guests, knowing Alice does not understand the language while the guests do. When his daughter-in-law Anne Cresacre (More has manipulated a marriage so son Will can access Alice's inheritance) pines for a necklace of pearls, More presents her with gift box that rattles. The box contains dried peas. The sadistic More uses torture far more severe than waterboarding to extract confessions from those he believes heretics. More can cuddle a pet rabbit but has a serving boy stripped naked in front of the women of the household and whips him "for saying the host was a piece of bread." And this is the same Thomas More who refuses to swear an oath to the Act of Supremacy for fear of damning his soul!WOLF HALL, though, is Thomas Cromwell's story. That a man of his humble beginnings, the son of a blacksmith and wool trader, could become the second most powerful man in England is testimony to his considerable talents. Cromwell becomes the go-to man for the powerful, an opportunist surely, but a man confident in his abilities to judge human nature and read the political landscape to his advantage. Yet Thomas is a loving husband and father. When first his wife Liz and later daughters Anne and Grace are one by one taken from him by "the sweating disease," he grieves, and Mantel has us grieve with him. Having been one of the downtrodden himself (the novel starts with young Cromwell being severally beaten by his father Walter), Thomas becomes the champion and mentor of other helpless folk, among them Dick Pursor, the boy whipped by More, and brings them into his household for protection. It is Cromwell that makes the novel thrum.In the Prologue to Shakespeare's HENRY VIII, the audience is told: "I come no more to make you laugh." WOLF HALL chronicles a violent and volatile time in England's history and there is not much lightheartedness in the novel. In the telling of her story Mantel conveys how the toxic brew of politics and religion created a climate ripe for persecution, how quickly those in favor could see their fortunes reversed, where the only mercy shown the condemned was the manner in which they were put to death: being drawn and quartered commuted to beheading. No wonder our founding fathers believed so fervently in a Republic where Church and State were kept separate!WOLF HALL spans only seven years of Henry's reign. The novel begins with a teenage boy being beaten, concludes with the execution of an ex-Lord Chancellor. Anne has rolled the dice a second time and miscarried. At least three times readers have been reminded that Anne's head rests "on the slender stem of her neck...." [Her last words on earth: "The executioner is, I believe, an expert...and my neck is very slender...Oh, God have mercy on my soul, Oh, God have mercy on my soul....] Cromwell has shown he cannot always deliver, is not exempt from Henry's wrath. Mantel ends WOLF HALL with Cromwell's planning a trip for Henry's summer agenda, including a five day stopover at Wolf Hall, the ancestral home of Jane Seymour.  There are more heads yet to roll. Mantel has foreshadowed a sequel. I can't wait to read it.
5 Once I got used to her unusual voice (&#34;he&#34; - means Cromwell most of the time), I loved this. So much historical detail woven into the story and the characters alive and worth caring for. This is a time period much covered in novels and TV, but her take was unique and made it much cleared to me. Especially the struggle in the church. Thomas More is usually presented as a pious esthete, but in this novel he was sanctimonious and mean. I totally recommend this. Am looking forward to reading the 2nd book.
4 Hard to read in parts as main character written as third person probably because he gets beheaded in the future (not in this book). This is not a spoiler as you can google Thomas Cromwell and find out what happened in his life.Anyway it's a fascinating reconstruction of how life might have been in the 1500's. the book appears to be very well researched so you end up knowing lot more about Henry eighth .
2 First off, I am only as far as Part II and I am starting to feel like I need to get my eyes or head examined because I keep loosing who is speaking and why they are jumping time. And THEN just when I realize the speaker hasn't jumped time, they do jump time and come back into the present. I read historical fiction for pleasure not to question my own powers of concentration which up until this point were pretty damned good as I can get through some very dry history texts. This could be a fantastic book so I will keep reading, hoping, that maybe I will get the hang of how this author writes.  But as of now, UGH.
5 This book is a huge achievement.  It won the Booker and deservedly so. Historical fiction doesn't come better than this. Let me amend that. Fiction doesn't come better than this.  The sequel, Bring Up The Bodies is its equal and I'm eagerly waiting for the third episode about the life of Thomas Cromwell, Henry VIII's fixer, schemer and instigator of the English grammar school system which transformed social mobility by extending education.  Tony Morphett
4 I really enjoyed reading this book, but I would not call it my favorite historical fiction. Mantel has certain writing quirks, for lack of a better word, that kept me from giving this 5 stars.  The use of the pronoun "he" has been discussed by other reviewers, and I agree.  Its not too hard to get over it if you just assume she's talking about Cromwell.  However, I can remember at least 2 times where there were two "hes"...it was confusing, and I don't really see the need.  THe second reservation I had is much harder to express. I simply had the feeling at times, that I was reading a screen play, a scene written for the visual not the written word.  Hard to put my finger on, but it sort of nagged me.The best parts are the scenes with Cromwell's family, they are vivid and very interesting.  I also loved any exchange Cromwell had with Anne Boleyn and Catherine of Aragon, they were absolutely fabulous, terrific dialogue and vivid characterizations.All in all I recommend the book, its a great read (although a rather slow one..there are not parts you can read quickly or skim) and it offers a view into Cromwell and even Henry VIII that is (thankfully)different from the usual Philippa Gregory/HBO fare.
5 I felt like I was transported into a past world, and was able to glimpse history unfold first hand. For lovers of history and great storytelling, pick this up and start it right now.
5 Ms Mantel totally submerges the reader in 16th C. Britain during the reign of Henry VIII. You can see it, feel it, taste it and smell it (unfortunately). Be brave and resolute when you begin because there's some confusion as to who is speaking until you realize the novel's "voice" is Cromwell's, and the absence of quotation marks indicate Cromwell's thoughts. That small hurdle overcome, the novel becomes intimate, accessible, and un-put-down-able. For the seriously curious, make sure you are familiar with how to use your Kindle dictionary, and have a laptop/iPad-type device at the ready so inter alia you can look-up words like "gurning," a word we all would've loved and used when we were 10 y/o. The sign of a good novel is the time spent mourning it after reading the last page. I mourned for 5 days, an all-time personal record. Suggestion: if you'd like to put contemporary faces to the historical characters, watch episodes of "The Tudors," beginning with Season 2The Tudors - The Complete Second Season.
2 Why must the winners of the Booker Prize be so incredibly difficult to read.  I'm fairly knowledgeable of English history, particularly the Tudors, but I really can't fill in the name of "he" in each paragraph.  Sometimes it's Cromwell, sometimes, the king, or Norfolk or maybe Thomas Boleyn.  I could have finished this book a week ago but for the re-reading of entire pages, trying to figure out what exactly the author was trying to say.  For example: "The evening before Fisher is to die, he visits More."  No, Thomas More didn't go to see Bishop Fisher, Cromwell did.  In other parts, the author will say "he, Cromwell, ...".  Feast or famine.  Too many subjects, or not enough.As far as the historical veracity of the book, I'm sure it's impeccable.  I just don't feel I got to know Cromwell, or his mentor, Wolsey; or Henry, or Anne or Thomas More (he does come off as a nasty).  I really can't recommend this book.  If you notice the writing, the book isn't well written. BTW, Wolf Hall has nothing whatsoever to do with the period covered by this book.
4 Takes you into a historical world. A lot of characters to follow, but also believable intrigue. Mantel makes it very real!
4 It took me a while to get accustomed to the authors style of writing.  Very little grammar is used.  Sometimes it is hard to distinguish who is speaking.  I persevered and it was well worth it!
1 Satisfying in beginning; rest of book extremely disjointed.  Too many characters...not sure of the relevance of them all.  Hard to get into...
4 i agree with others who are annoyed by Mantel's tendency to overuse "he" in descriptive or narrative passages. Notably, the audiobook version has the narrator often saying "He, Cromwell,"  to clarify who's the he referred to.I am sort of astounded actually that "Wolf Hall" seems to include nearly every historical Thomas the author could pull into this novel. Thomas Cromwell, Thomas Woolsey, Thomas Wyatt, Thomas Cranmer, Thomas More.  Perhaps this is all intentional, or merely accidental.  It's almost a litany of people named Thomas, as though Mantel decided every Thomas available.
1 I usually love every novel I read about Henry VIII's life & times. I was a bit intimidated by Wolf Hall so I ordered it on CD. What a mistake! I had the hardest time keeping up from one chapter to the next. The language was difficult & the narrator was awful. I have a masters in history so it's not like I'm not sharp enough to keep up. I know Mantel's work received rave reviews, but I did not enjoy the telling.
1 To drawn out!!!!!! Even Thomas Cromwell in real time could not be  that boring,the story could be told in half the words
4 After finishing the novel, I tried real hard to determine if there is any real depth or substance to the story. The answer that I discovered, I'm afraid, is not too much. First, the events and outcomes depicted are not new; they can be found in historical texts. Mantel did not exactly reinvent the wheel here. What she mainly did was create snarky dialogue among the principal characters during the chaotic reign of Henry VIII. Outside the snarky and witty exchanges among the characters, I would say this book is quite plain.I can't say I did not enjoy reading Wolf Hall; I did. But underneath the witty repartee and snarkiness, I'm afraid the "king" is not wearing any clothes and is quite naked.
5 This book is an amazing achievement and I am in awe of the scholarship involved in writing it. Even though I was occasionally confused by stray characters and how they fit into the story (despite the daunting five-page Cast of Characters at the beginning of the book) I was still caught up in the book. I especially loved the contrast Mantel presents between her protagonist Thomas Cromwell and theMan for All Seasons, Thomas More. Cromwell represents the new--for him, every day knocks the corners off the certainties of this world and the next, while More represents the old--everything he learns confirms him in what he's always believed. It's shocking to see More portrayed as a hypocrite, cruel and uncaring to his wife, tryannical and ruthless to those he considers heretics. Shocking, but ultimately convincing.More, dogmatic and inflexible, wants to keep the world as it is. Keep men in their places, keep them from reading the Bible in their own language. Cromwell represents change. Of low birth and wide experience, his is the defensive art of facing both ways. And though the entire book is written from Cromwell's point of view, he is essentially as mysterious to the reader as he is to those around him. (Mantel's device of referring to Cromwell almost exclusively as "he" takes some getting used to, but I assume it was meant to emphasize that distance between Cromwell and the reader). Cromwell believes that a man's power is in "the half-light," and claims his workings are hidden, even from himself. He has a dark, subtle sense of humor but keeps his emotions and his motivations to himself.I liked how clear the book makes the scandal of Henry's divorce and elevation of Anne Boleyn. And it's amazing to think there was ever a time that having a Bible printed in English could be enough to condemn a man to a horrific death. The courage and commitment of the reformers is amazing to contemplate, and Mantel brings it to vivid life for us. I'm not sure why the book is called "Wolf Hall" (perhaps it's meant to suggest ominous fate--Cromwell's acknowledgement that man is wolf to man?) but I enjoyed reading the book and am happy to hear Ms. Mantel is working on the next part of Cromwell's story.
5 From the perspective of Thomas Cromwell, a councilor to Henry VIII, Wolf Hall by Hilary Mantel takes a man who is usually portrayed in histories as the cold, calculating toady to a lustful Henry and shows him as compassionate, sensitive, loyal and wise while also self-promoting. It is a fascinating alternate view of the history. Mantel's writing is engaging, at times funny and tender. The scenes with Cromwell and his family--a collection of relatives and wards--show Cromwell as affectionate and benevolent. He is a man of mercy, loyalty and ingenuity.While I have always had sympathy for Catherine, the displaced queen, I also have found the history of the break with the Roman Catholic Church an essential part necessary for the reformation of Christianity. Wolf Hall details more of the inner decisions of men working closely with Henry VIII who also wanted reforms and were bothered by the wealth, greed, power and corruption of the papacy. It was a most interesting period of time and I very much enjoyed Mantel's carefully scripted version of events and characterizations of the players.The reader must work for the enjoyment and enlightenment within, however. It took me at least 50 pages to get used to the unique writing style which rarely referred to Cromwell by his name but rather by pronouns. I found myself reading dialogue sections over frequently to try to determine just who was saying what. Every word is essential to understanding. And really, it was very much worth the work.
1 Well in Wolf Hall we have another book which floats on a success built of conventional wisdom.  Those who manage to finish it love it because what would it say about them if they read this rubbish to the end and didn't like it?Reviewers pile on.  It's a vicious circle.  It creates buzz and those of us who crave well written stories drawn from history are sucked in and left wondering... WTF?I read 23% of the book.  Usually I get to 25% before I decide to continue or finish a novel.My complaints are a story which has absolutely NO MOMENTUM.  As another reviewer says, it is impossible to get lost in this book because the reader is constantly plowing backwards to figure out who is speaking and in what context.  I hope Mantel is happy with this confusing mash of "HE", "Him" because it is hard to imagine the reader, even those who loved it, appreciating this sort of garble.It sure started strong but after three pages, it lost all tension and drama and for the next 23% of the book, there is a lot of writing, but the tension and drama nor readability  never return.And lastly, the narrator is extremely boring, providing no insight but lots of disjointed words.  Sorry, novels require more than words to be successful.Buy at your own peril.
3 Loving the Tudor period I looked forward to reading Wolf Hall. I loved the writing style although at times found it rather opaque for all the reasons highlighted by other reviewers. Nevertheless I just couldn't finish the book and not because it was 600 odd pages. There just didn't seem to be any climax, notwithstanding Thomas More's execution. I have recently learned that Mantel is writing a sequel so perhaps that will be more engaging. Also, I just couldn't relate emotionally to any of the characters, again I think because of Mantel's peculiar literary style.
3 Mark Twain is reported to have said that he sat through a perfectly terrible German play that he wished to leave because he was waiting for the verb.This encapsulates the way I feel about Hilary Mantel's Wolf Hall. I sat through the book because of the prose style. Mantel writes without the overwriting so common in literary fiction (though at times I could hear Kevin Costner's Bull Durham describing Susan Sontag's writing in the back of my mind as I was working through unusually boring sections). Having said that, all the details are not useful to the development of the plot, the characters, or to helping the reader immerse himself in Tudor England. There are instances of symbology being so obliquely referenced that one hardly knows what they symbolized. Other episodes are simply dead ends. Mantel has the habit of using "he/him" in scenes involving several male characters interacting. Often you simply can't sort them out. I initially made the mistake of assuming that ambiguous pronouns referred to the main character, Thomas Cromwell. They don't.On the whole the book is plodding and overly long. It takes several hundred pages for characters to develop. Other authors have handled multiple characters and subplots with much more skill than Mantel, for instance, James Clavell in Shogun.The plot is weak. Other than Thomas Cromwell the characters are unmemorable and uninspired. The story moves at a sloth's gait. Unless you're willing to stay with it to appreciate the writing, don't begin.
5 I consider "Wolf Hall" an extraordinary work of art primarily because every page, every paragraph, every sentence, is exquisitely crafted, and crafted at a consistent level of excellence over the novel's 500 plus pages. That said, I suspect the reason for many of the less favorable reviews is simply that "Wolf Hall" is no "ripping yarn". To the contrary, it is a (perhaps very) difficult read. I re-read the first 150 pages and then again the following 100, something I had never done before, in order to try to understand who was who and doing what to whom and why. The large cast of characters, the constant time shifts, the tricky phraseaology and paragraph construction, all make it tough reading. Readers looking for "romance" and "suspense" in a historical setting involving historical characters will almost certainly be frustrated."Wolf Hall" is rather a novel of constant, unrelenting tension.  It is also a fascinating portrayal of the politics, social norms and behaviors of the times. The dialogue is absolutely superb - the exchanges between Cromwell and More, Mary Boleyn, Ann Boleyn are unique for their intelligence and realism. But most of all, it triumphs as an inside perspective into the personalities and persons and how their motivations and talents affect the course of events. It is the precision and detail with which these perspectives are rendered that make the novel memorable, and to me, deserving of the accolade "work of art".
3 The writing is not always easy to follow, but I enjoyed the history of Thomas Cromwell and Henry VIII from this perspective.
5 This is the kind of book that a reader can sink their teeth into and, be forewarned, it is not a quick read. This book is dense with ideas, story and characters and I was extremely thankful for the glossary at the beginning of the book listing who was who and where they lived.I can understand where some readers got very confused and frustrated but if you keep in mind that this is Thomas Cromwell's story and, more often than not, his voice speaking, it becomes somewhat easier to grasp what is going on and who is saying what. Don't give up too easily on this book.  It really is worth the effort.I think that in using Thomas Cromwell as central figure in this novel it helped to humanize all the other characters in the book...many who, for me anyway, have been larger-than-life historical figures whose reasons for what they did have always been too simplistically explained. When you see them as flesh and blood, comprehension of motives (though not necessarily approval) become clearer.I for one, did not realize the mess the Church was in at that time and understanding this clarifies a lot.Anyway, I enjoyed this quite a bit and felt real satisfaction after completing it.
4 Salacious, juicy gossipy novel by Hilary Mantel, whose knowledge of English history is prodigious.  Her imagination as to who said what to whom behind closed doors as people jockey for position in Henry's court is remarkable in its wit and incisiveness.  Cardinal Wolsey, Cromwell, Catherine of Aragon, Mary Boleyn, and others make up a cast of characters as crafty and Machiavellian as any American soap opera.  This is the first in a trilogy.  &#34;Bring Up the Bodies&#34; is the second one, and the third is still in the works.  A delicious read, but &#34;Bring Up the Bodies&#34; is better, hence the 4 instead of a 5.
4 Had a hard time getting into it but once I did really enjoyed it.  Gave a person a different idea of Cromwell.
5 He'd write in this vein, with similar rhythm and straightforwardness. I am ashamed to say I can usually spot an author's "tells" and literary crutches within fifty pages or so, but this damn thing hooked me in both as a reader and student of the English language. Certain phrases and sentences you had to savor, turning this way and that just to get all the meat out of them, and then rush back to the narrative in case you missed something. I want this book to become a film in the way all those Potter-head children wanted their heroes up on the screen, and I haven't felt this way about a book since Pat Conroy started mining the marshy lowland minefield of his childhood. Well done.
2 This could have been a very interesting book as the characters and the issues are very colorful, and the author obviously has done extensive research and is not a bad writer.  But regretfully, it failed to engage me, probably because of the confusing style of writing that I just couldn't find the reasons for, and eventually became so overwhelmingly annoying.  However, it got me interested in learning more about the history, and I think I will read nonfiction history books on some of the characters.
5 "Wolf Hall" reduces the sprawling soap opera of Henry VIII's "Great Matter" and his subsequent marriage to Anne Boleyn to a world in small, populated by men of degrees of power who are caught up in this political nightmare whether they wish to be or not.  The narrative centers around the still-controversial figure of Henry's favorite "hatchet man," Thomas Cromwell, and spins out as told through his increasingly cold and ambitious eyes.Henry and the "great personages" of the court make relatively few appearances until the second half of the book, instead serving as the larger, often unseen canvas for this tale of grief, sorrow, intrigue, and the dehumanizing force all too often inherit in the exercise of temporal and ecclesiastical power.  They are the backdrop against which the lesser - but in many ways no less important - lights spin their plots and grapple with the morality and consequences of their fateful political decisions.  Cromwell, in this story, becomes "all too human," not a villian any more than the chill and fanatic St Thomas More or the pleasantly hale, sometime kind, and yet flawed Cardinal Wolsey.  By providing Cromwell his often neglected back-story, Mantel allows the reader to understand not only him but also the evolution of his own political and religious attitudes in the high-stakes "sand-castle at high tide" shifting world of Tudor power politics, all overlaid by the increasing sense of dread caused by Henry VIII's expanding obssessions and beginning slide into cruel tyranny with the opening of the drama that will lead to the contrived death of Anne Boleyn.  Cromwell the man is a brilliant and astute observer, lawyerly and detached while suffering increasing pangs of conscience as his familial misfortunes grow in stark contrast to his expanding political power.  Mantel paints a mechanical mind always working, always working, cognizant of the tightropes of class, wit, business, money, war, marriage, and religion up until he truly becomes the "King's Man" as he rides off to arrange the third marriage to the milky Jane Seymour.  But this Cromwell is also cognizant of the things like family and loss as having the deeper meanings, even if he lacks the vocabulary to articulate them as he feels he ought and in light of his achingly slow and fumbling religious awakening, which comes at it does in perfectly believeable fits and starts.  Mantel's Cromwell is a man of astute observation and deep intuition, a man of passion he rarely lets show lest one dance step too far carry him off to destruction.  For those who have come to expect Cromwell as a new "Iago," this book will savagely disappoint.  And this, I think, is a far more credible Cromwell than the cartoonish villain of Bolt's "A Man for All Seasons," full-fleshed and whole blooded, not the slithery, hand-rubbing opportunistic sadist or implied sociopath of far too many other - and lesser - treatments.I have also reviwed the negative comments in this thread, and I have two comments of my own.  It is true that Mantel uses a "flashback" style of narrative with sometime bits of "stream of consciousness."  "Wolf Hall" can therefore be a difficult read at points, and does command the reader's full attention.  But, I have to take grave exception to those who were obviously looking for the more soap-operatic or overtly "serpentine" court-gossipy novel.  This is a work of great subtlety, and finely appreciates how the affairs of people of power are actually managed and executed by others in their service, often without their actual knowledge and often at unappreciated great risk.  Further, Mantel's writing provides the reflective atmosphere that perfectly patterns the evolution of Cromwell's own entangled personal/political mind.  She manages her extended metaphors and historical-literary allusions, not to mention superior command of historical detail, with nothing less than a deft and practiced hand.  It was a pleasure to read such thoughtful, elegant, and - at points - even inspired prose.I recommend "Wolf Hall" without reservation.  True, it can be a hard read.  It is not a Tudor soap opera with the usual cast of heroes and grotesques, but rather profoundly three-dimensional characters.  But it is one of the best works of historical fiction about the Tudor epoch I have enjoyed in a long, long while.
5 After reading the reviews of &#34;Bring Up the Bodies,&#34; the sequel to &#34;Wolf Hall,&#34; and receiving a copy for Christmas, I thought that I would read &#34;Wolf Hall&#34; first.  Wow!  In addition to the compelling narrative (a somewhat familiar tale, although not from this perspective), the prose is just gorgeous!
2 Despite my interest in the period and the author's portraits of Thomas Cromwell, Thomas More, et al, I finally gave up on this book.  Even Cormac McCarthy, a spare, economical writer, has the grace to change paragraphs when a different speaker talks.  I found her laziness with pronoun reference intolerable.  Poor pronoun reference (who is "he"?  Cromwell, More, or Henry Viii?) made this book a slog.  I, like other reviewers, found her changing  of locations and historical time periods so aggravating, I gave up on the book half way through.  There are many good points to this book; too bad the writer didn't take time to observe the conventions of writing.I also suspect that those who rated this book 4 or 5 stars skipped around and skimmed over some of the more poorly written sections.  How much more do we need to know about Anne Boleyn's pursuit of Henry VIII?  Court gossip and ambition depicted so often become tedious.
2 I read allot and I'll read anything from the very complex to the very simple.  I had a hard time tracking the timeline and characters in this book.  I don't consider it to be very well written and the flow was terrible.  Hilary's second book &#34;Bring Up the Bodies&#34; was much better.
5 Recommend this book for anyone, easy to read, follow, and enjoyable for someone with little spare leisure reading time! Get the book.
5 I am currently doing research for a new book and decided to read Wolf Hall to see if it could give me some insight into the research I was doing. This book was simply amazing. Ms. Mantel set the reader right in the middle of all of the politics and double dealings that went on during the reign of Henry VIII. I did not realize that Thomas Cromwell played such a roll in that reign. Thank you Ms. Mantel for such a wonderful book.
2 This series is so good except for this terrible book! I had to skip it mid-way through because it was so boring and messed up! Definitely do not recommend it.
4 Since I wanted to know what happened to Grubbs I was like "I dont care about this BEC girl" but as i read it i got so caught into it that I completely forgot..hahahha its a good book. Not so strong in the first few pages but it gets better.-MAGALY
2 SPOILERS AHEAD!!Demonata was a series that took me a long time to get into. When I first discovered it around 2008, I was turned off by it's extreme violence and gore, but this was partially because of parent/teacher restrictions - and when I finally got around to reading it last year, it was one of the better fantasy/fiction books I have read. Hyperviolence, well developed characters - it was one of the most enjoyable series' I've read. I enjoyed "Lord Loss" immensely, "Demon Thief" was perhaps my favorite in the series, "Slawter" was probably the most disturbing and gruesome book (quite a feat. for this series) but I still enjoyed it, but when I finally got to "Bec" I was...quite dissappointed.It's a decent book in it's own right, don't get me wrong. However, compared to the previous and following books it just felt...there. Like, it didn't do anything to the story. Granted, it DID do important things to the story - it introduced Bec, one of the three main characters, and Beranabus, an important secondary character. Also it delved deeper into Lord Loss' (the character) origins. But it didn't feel like it did, and it didn't do much else, really, other than have a super cliffhanger/depressing ending which brought the score down even more.So the book starts with Bec saying how she can somehow remember her birth. Quite interesting. And then we get a seemingly out of nowhere demon attack on Bec's Irish village (this book takes place in the 1600s, by the way). Which brings me to another point - the action. Compared to the other 9 books in the series, it was...lacking. Remember the fight with the horse demons in "Dark Calling" or the battle against Lord Loss and his demons in "Slawter"? Compared to fights and actions like those, this book pales in comparison. There were some good moments, like when one of the members of Bec's caravan thing gets killed by the illusions of her own children (cannabalism yay!) and some other moments scattered throughout the book. Maybe if action appeared more throughout the book, it would save the fighting from being mediocre like it is, but action happens quite rarely for a Darren Shan book, which is lame because Darren is great at writing fight scenes. Fight scenes are what MADE Demonata, and this book has, to be frank, no spine without as many fight scenes as it should have had.Also, the character developement was lacking. Bec, being one of the main characters, was not developed enough, and did not see a good devolopement point until her second narrated book ("Death's Shadow"). The minor characters just felt there for the sake of it, so Bec would have someone to converse with. They really didn't do anything...at all, and they were all exterminated by demon's rather quickly. Even Bec's love interest and the most important minor character was wasted rather quickly. There really wasn't a point to these characters, and you could not relate to them in any way, shape or form. Beranabus (who was called "Bran" in this book) was also a rather annoying little kid who didn't talk much at all, and compared to his great, stoic personality in later books he got irritating rather quickly.The ending was also quite rushed and a depressing. In the end, after everyone but Bec and Bran is dead, they are chased into a cave by Lord Loss, and Bec is killed and engraved within the walls for centuries, and Bran is the only survivor...and the book ends. Wow, just wow. Though this part was quite unnerving, it only left a cliffhanger to a book that really wasn't preparing the reader for anything, and this ending just failed miserably because there was no need to put a cliffhanger into a book that wasn't very suspensfel to begin with.This book is...well, quite mediocre, at least compared to the other Demonata books. It lacks the suspense, action, and developement where it should be in a book series packed with suspense. I wouldn't avoid this - it's decent in it's own right - but I wouldn't actively seek it out, either. When you get to this book in the series, either skip it or trudge along through it - you won't miss much of anything for this enjoyable series if you do either.
3 I feel bad only giving this book 3 out of 5 stars because I am a big Darren Shan fan, I really liked The Saga of Darren Shan and LOVED the first three books in the Demonata series, but I was a bit dissapointed with this book.Dont get me wrong, it's not a bad book, just a bit week. It was much slower-paced than the others and I didn't like the character of Bec as much as I did Grubbs and Kernel.However, it explained some things from the past involving Grubbs' family and the Demonata and it was quite suspencefull and had a surpise ending so had its good points, too.Still quite a good read which I would recomend becuase it is of the Demonata series, which is brilliant.
5 This was by far my favorite in the Demonata series, i couldn't put it down.
5 BecBec, by author Darren Shanahan, was an exciting, thrilling horror story. There are things that would gross out even the most un-grossoutable people in the world. This was a very well written book with so much detail; it's as if you were there. Aside from the crazy demons, this book reminded me of my home. There is a loving family with a couple of mischievous kids. They like to play tricks on each other, and you can tell they really love each other. But when he is sent of to his aunts while his family goes to an opera, everything goes wrong. He gets sent to an insane asylum and has a struggle with that. Then his uncle comes and saves the day. When he goes to his uncle's, he realizes something he thought that was just in his family... he loved chess! So he stayed with his uncle for about a year when something went terribly wrong. He thought about leaving, but that would be betraying his best friend. So he and his uncle defy the odds and summon a demon to save his friend. Everyone in this story seems like they were based on real people. In conclusion I thought that this was one of the very best books I've read in a long time.
5 Loved it! I have really enjoyed these books so far. I do wish each book would include all the characters from previous books, but that's me just being greedy. I loved Bec!!!!
5 Found dead on the outskirts of the rath's walls, Bec's mother has struggled desperately to get her baby to safety. When the villagers find them, they take the child in as one of their own. Questions haunt them, however, as to where the young woman came from and why she risked everything to bring her little one to their village.Through the years, Bec also wonders about her mother and her own role. Will she ever be able to find out the secrets of her heritage? Will she ever understand fully the strange dreams and powerful magic that seem to grow in her with every passing day? From an early age there seemed to be recognition that Bec is someone special. By many she is regarded as a priestess. Now much of her time is spent learning magic and trying to understand the chaos and evil that threaten the lives of this little band of humans.As Bec grows older, the danger around them escalates. They are at war with the "foul legions of the Otherworld." The Formorii, as they are called, are flesh-eating demons, made up of ghastly body parts and spirited by the evil and ultimate demon, Lord Loss. The demons are bent on the total destruction of mankind. They are at war to destroy anything good, spiritual and human on earth.One day their village unexpectedly receives a visit from a distraught boy who appears highly agitated and only responds with the words "Run Fast." He seems to want Bec and her people to come with him. Bec and a few of her rath decide that this is the best thing to do --- in fact, Bec feels a magic in the boy and the spirit of her mother telling her to go. With much trepidation, they form a small envoy of warriors to follow Run Fast, to kill as many demons as possible and in some way to help mankind.The adventures that follow are both shattering and terrifying for the little group. Between attacks from demons, the deaths of some of their fellow travelers and startling revelations about Bec's heritage, the group is tested. But the real revelation comes when they meet the Druid, Durst, and discover that he has Bec in mind for a very special and dangerous mission:A tunnel has opened between this land and the Otherworld. It will allow demons to enter our realm freely. It's a small tunnel but it's growing. As it grows, larger, smarter, stronger demons will cross. They can roam the land by day as well as night. And, as I've already told you, they can only be killed by magic.Nothing can prepare the reader for the things that follow and the ultimate surprising conclusion of this disturbing saga. Darren Shan has really pushed the envelope in this fourth installment, with its over-the-top blood and gore. Some readers will be shocked and disappointed (I know I was), and some will be disgusted, but everyone will be absolutely riveted for the next book in the Demonata series.--- Reviewed by Sally M. Tibbetts
4 Bec has never led a normal life, or was never given the chance to. Born only remembering her mother and how she passed away, Bec was saved by a village's priestess who urged the village leaders to let her live. Making her the priestess's apprentice, Bec was able to learn the magic and potions that would be used in aid of those who fought in battles.Unfortunately for Bec, she didn't know how many battles her village would be facing.Never a quiet night, Bec's village is continuously invaded by demons, the Fomorii, who come to tear the village apart. And every night Bec must use what she has learned, which isn't much since the priestess was killed way before she was able to pass on everything she knew.Used to having other villagers come through, Bec's village is visited by Run Fast, a boy who says that his village is in trouble. Unsure of his story or of what side he is on, the warriors feel an obligation to help and so set off to end their fight. Usually the priestess does not go along with the warriors, but this time Bec sees fit to travel with them, hoping that this journey will help her figure out what troubles her and hopefully to become one with her surroundings and her magic.Fighting off the demons is not an easy feat, especially since both worlds have just been connected, making it easier for the demons to enter, multiplying their numbers every time one is killed. Magic is what destroys them -- and the lives of the villagers and the warriors are in the hands of Bec.Thrilling and different from the other novels in the series, BEC is a courageous novel that leaps off the pages and plays with our imagination. The descriptions are vivid and the story is unique. With an ending that will leave you breathless, BEC is a great addition to the already popular series, THE DEMONATA.Reviewed by:  Randstostipher "tallnlankyrn" Nguyen
5 I love the way Darren Shan goes back to when Lord Loss finds the board. This was an excellent way to bring in a new character (Bec) and also give us the history of Beranabus.
5 All the secrets of the every religion ever invented and not yet invented are laid bare in this book. Good quality hard cover.
4 OK, I'll have to admit - Bobby Henderson's open letter to the Topeka Kansas School Board, which proposed that his "Flying Spaghetti Monster" theory be taught on equal footing with the Theory of Evolution and Theory of Intelligent Design - was brilliant, witty and great fun; and was an extremely effective and innovative way to illustrate that science must be about facts, and that facts can be proven or disproven: that science is not about one's beliefs over and above those facts.In that vein, Mr. Henderson's book-length version of that open letter is filled with lots of fun and elaborate "theories" and arguments, designed to lampoon many of Intelligent Design's arguments by showing them up for the logical fallacies that they are.  On the other hand, the approach he uses in the book gets a bit repetitive and long winded, to the point of being tedious.  So, like other great satires of the past, such as the 1960's TV Series "Batman", or the more recent Shrek films, the joke gets old after a while.I would say that Mr. Henderson's contention that Intelligent Design places a veneer of faith on top of flawed logic is both brilliant and humorously presented.  The book length version of that satire, while providing a fair number of chuckles and deep thoughts to ponder over pasta, is best read in small doses.Though I'd give 5 stars for the concept, the execution of it in this volume is only a 2 star effort.  So let's be generous and - given that it does succeed in generating chuckles at a fairly consistent pace - I'll rate the book as 4 stars overall.
5 This was a great little book...Ok, so it's not a hardback like it appears in the picture - and the binding is kind of cheap. But for the price...what do you expect?!? I starting laughing on the first page and kept laughing until the end. I even quoted from it for a college research paper. This is a very liberal book and will offend certain individuals. That's why I liked it. Contains some of the same messages of modern mainstream western religions.
5 First, I would like to thank Mr Henderson for one of the greatest spoofs of pseudo-science in history. His FSM added some fun to an otherwise truly sad and worrying phenomenon.Then, being European, let me add that I find the success of intelligent design and (even worse) creationism in the United States a truly incomprehensible phenomenon. This being the country I live in, and a country that under many many respects I certainly respect and admire, I cannot fathom how someone can be so obtuse as to being a creationist (I have somewhat more benign thoughts for genuine supporters of ID. Evolutionism certainly IS a mind-boggling idea). The fact that millions of people do believe in the literal truth of "science" reported in a BOOK written 2000 years ago, in a country that is producing much of the best science in any discipline on this planet, is for me a source of immense and endless frustration. Then it is true that Europe still have people believing in communism... Nobody's perfect, I guess.I am certainly aware that Evolutionary Theory is not perfect, and that Darwin and his followers's findings have been often misrepresented and misused, but for G**'s (right...) sake...One day creationists and ID supporters will vanish as Dodos, but it's still frustrating to see that right now they are still with us (I am not hoping for their physical demise, of course: I just wish they saw the light...)... I can see why people may disagree on issues such as abortion of stem cells, but this should not be about belief, it should be about science...For those of you who would like to know more about the Kitzmiller et al. v. Dover Area School District ruling, I highly recommend reading the whole document available at w w w. sciohost.org/ncse/kvd/kitzmiller_decision_20051220.pdf
4 Don't get me wrong -- I'm definitely in the church of FSM, and for someone who grew up with religion shoved down their throat, the satire in this book is outstanding.  You'll definitely get the point, see the light, and convert.  But for those of us already educated enough to get it and have moved on, this book is a little trite.  That said, I buy this book regularly as a gift for birthdays, etc.  It's an eye-opening to most people!
2 I picked up this book thinking something as subversive and whimsical as the Flying Spaghetti Monster would yield a lighthearted skewering of religious absurdities. It tries in its way, but its style includes a lot of unnecessary f-bombs and sophomoric writing. It's like a frat boy's version of religious insurgency -- not all that bright, boisterous and awkward, and slightly embarrassing.
5 The Gospel of the Flying Spaghetti Monster is one of the funniest things I have come across in a while.  Bobby Henderson, a physics grad student, has ingeniously crafted a mock religion that effectively parodies the fundamentalist aspects of western religions (especially Christianity) that mainstream Christians and non-Christians find groan-worthy.Henderson created the Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster, also known as Pastafarianism, in response to the recent trials over Intelligent Design and whether or not it belongs in a school's curriculum (or whether evolution has no place there).  FSM claims that the world was created by a Flying Spaghetti Monster, that pirates are His chosen people, and that Earthly problems, such as global warming are a direct result of the shrinking numbers of (actual) pirates in the world (Henderson has a graph that shows there is a direct correlation between the number of pirates and average global temperatures).Using "facts" and "science", Henderson shows how evolution is wrong and that life can only have been created by the FSM, who obviously has a sense of humor due to certain things that happen in life.  He also talks about how FSM heaven is so much better than Christian heaven due to the presence of a beer volcano and a stripper factory.Other great aspects are the twists on biblical stories and places (such as why the great flood occurred or the Olive Garden of Eden) as well as the 8 Commandments (or is it Condiments) or FSM, commonly known as the "8 I'd Really Rather You Didn'ts", due to the fact that each one starts off with, "I'd really rather you didn't...".Obviously, this book requires a sense of humor to be enjoyed, because it pokes fun at religion.  But if you can see this book for what it is, a great parody of some of the stranger aspects of religion, you will definitely enjoy it.
4 If you like Onion-type humor, you will find this book funny. The writing is not uniformly good, and not all ideas will make you laugh, but it still is worth your time. Also, even though some (most?) of the humor is silly, there are many snipets here and there where the argument for science, and against creationism, is very clearly put -- not humorous, except perhaps for the irony.As an aside: Are creationists an oppressed minority? Is it ok to make fun of them?
4 As a firm non believer, this has just as much merit as Christianity or any other religion. That's what I loved about this book, it is no more ridiculous than the Bible. His noodley appendage has touched my heart!
3 In the wonderful The God Delusion, Richard Dawkins mentions Bertrand Russell's parable of the celestial teapot:"If I were to suggest that between the Earth and the Moon there is a china teapot revolving about the sun in an elliptical orbit, nobody would be able to disprove my assertion provided I were careful to add that the teapot is too small to be revealed even by our most powerful telescopes. But if I were to go on to say that, since my assertion cannot be disproved, it is intolerable presumption on the part of human reason to doubt it, I should rightly be thought to be talking nonsense."If, however, existence of such a teapot were affirmed in ancient books, taught as the sacred truth every Sunday, and instilled into the minds of children at school, hesitation to believe in its existence would become a mark of eccentricity and entitle the doubter to the attentions of the psychiatrist in an enlightened age or of the Inquisitor in an earlier time." -- Russell, Is There a God? (1952)The Flying Spaghetti Monster is an upgraded version of Russell's celestial teapot in combination with Charles Schulz's The Great Pumpkin.It's really quite a hoot as author Bobby Henderson develops his religion of the Pastafarians, in which Pirates are the chosen people and Heaven contains the Beer Volcano and the Stripper Factory.Doctrine:"What do we stand for?""All that is good.""What are we against?""All that is bad."Which is a page out of the Kirby J. Hensley's Universal Life Church handbook, a religion that advocates "whatever is right." Give us that old time religion, hey? The FSM offers the cathartic experience of being moved and touched by the FSM's Noodly Appendage... analogous to Christian conversion.The book meanders benignly (marred only with the exception of an inexplicable use of the f-word on a few occasions in an early chapter).The origin of the Gospel of the FSM comes courtesy of the Intelligent Design (ID) debate via the Kansas School Board. The board ruled for a while that ID--ID is essentially Christian creation doctrine--would be taught in schools. Henderson wrote a letter to the board arguing for inclusion of FSM doctrine as well. He did not receive a reply....For my complete review of this book and for other book and moviereviews, please visit my site [...]Brian WrightCopyright 2007
5 I'm quite sure Christians will see this book as an attack. What they need to understand is that they've been imposing their views and even attacking and killing people for thousands of years in the name of God and Christ, neither of which can be verified to exist or to be who they are proclaimed to be.I've been saying for a long time that believing in something there's no proof of and something perpetuated by threats, guilt and condemnation makes no sense whatsoever. So this is a great analogy which hopefully will help to reduce some of the brainwashing in this culture.Be a Christian if you want, but be an informed one! Understand that you have A perspective and not THE perspective, and everyone else has a right to make up their mind as well.Ramen!!!
4 There is no way in the sizzling tomato sauce pan of the universe anyone can give this book anything below a four-star. It is no way perfect (unlike the Bhagavad Gita, the Tanakh, or the mash-up of Vulgata, Al-fiqh, Guru Granth or Book of Mormon). So it is better than perfect.No need for red-faced explanations of apparent or real lies or immoral acts. No use for garb-clad truth-tellers without scholarly education. Pyres are not called for anymore.Just the truth, ma'am.It's here.We dare. Anyone. To read it.If your GodzAllah can't handle the truth, he probably isn't a part of it.
3 I thought I would really enjoy this book, because I really enjoy the concept of the flying spaghetti monster in general, but this misses the mark. The jokes are obvious, and they are all basically the same. I couldn't make it all the way through, because I got really bored. Also, it's a little deceptive - there isn't actually a string coming out of a red book. It's a white paperback book with a picture of a red book with a string coming out of it. Not a big deal, but not what I was expecting.
5 Ok!! This will be a coffee table book for my sons apartment. It was to good to pass up so I got it for him. If you haven't checked into this you really should. It is hilarious!!
5 I so enjoyed this book that I wrote my JD doctoral dissertation on whether an inmate could legally practice the FSM religion while incarcerated. The case law -- including the Seeger Sincere Belief test -- is unequivocal: The Church of the FSM is a TRUE religion and must be afforded Constitutional protection. You can buy my doctoral dissertation in the Kindle Store:http://www.amazon.com/dp/B007AG2CF8/ref=tsm_1_fb_lk
3 Okay here is the deal in a nutshell. If you think the probability of a deity being a Flying Spaghetti Monster (FSM) is on equal par with a deity being Allah, Jesus, Jehovah, or whomever then you will find this book entertaining. If that thought offends you will in all likelihood not enjoy this book. Personally, in the last situation, I think you should read the book just to see what the other side thinks and believes.The book stems from a letter Bobby Henderson wrote to the Kansas Board of Education when they were putting Intelligent Design on par with the theory of evolution in the public school curriculum. He has a point, if Intelligent Design is to be taught why not yet another point of view.The book is basically an effort to expand on that original letter. Parts of it are a little dense or dry. Parts of it are very funny. Parts are somewhat redundant.I enjoyed it, but take it for what it is a spoof on all things religious.My future plans involve having a monk's robe made out of Mexican blanket material, grabbing a pirate hat and patch and going to the Big Lebowski Festival as a Dudeist priest of the Pastafarian flavor.
5 I had to live in Colorado Springs (home of the evangelical strange people) for a year.This is a perfect antidote :-)Hopefully a evangelical Christians read it and realize how daft their ideas are
5 This book is both hilarious and a great read to point out the flawed logic of one's own religious arguments, in that it uses the same wonderful logic that the most fundamental of them use.
2 I consider myself to be a true pastafarian, but my advice is to skip the book as it contains no redeeming value.May all who walk in the truth be touched by his noodly appendage.I bought the book to help Bobby, and you can do the same, but the website is infinitely more entertaining.Arrrr. May ye hang from the yardarm if ye don't convert now!Thanks everyone (including you Pirates), Steve Willie, Olympia, WA
3 I can't help it -- I was VERY disappointed when I received this book. From the picture shown on Amazon, it appeared that this book had a red leatherette cover with a gold ribbon bookmark just like more traditional gospels. That's not the case. This paperback book (with rather cheap greyish pages) has a white cover with a PICTURE of the red book with a gold ribbon bookmark on it.Content: 5 stars. False advertising: 1 star. Avg: 3 stars.
5 He has spoken, and we must obey.This book shouldn't just be in every home, it should come in every crappy motel room's nightstand drawer.Ramen!
5 A great and funny read. Definitely worth it. While the text formatting and stuff is a little eh it was definitely a great book to me.
4 How could so many people possibly be wrong about the Flying Spaghetti Monster?This book says it is real so it must be real.Some people say they have seen it so it must be real.Some people have had their lives changed by it so it just has to be real.Can you prove that the Flying Spaghetti Monster does not exist?See, the Flying Spaghetti Monster must be real!This book is too cute to pass up. Order it now and become a believer.--Guy P. Harrison, author ofRace and Reality: What Everyone Should Know About Our Biological Diversityand50 Reasons People Give for Believing in a God-
5 This makes about as much sense as Intelligent Design, but is much, much funnier.  It's sad that, in today's world of science and knowledge, superstitious garbage like creationism is still being pushed on our kids.  This book goes a long way in pointing out how silly it is to look for magical or supernatural explanations for natural events.
5 I absolutely love this book and will no doubt read it many times. If you dislike the concept of Intelligent Design taught in schools, but you can at least laugh at it, then I highly recommend buying this book.
5 Behind this religious parody, there's a serious point that can be stated quite briefly: "Science always looks for NATURAL explanations of phenomena; if you start calling SUPERNATURAL explanations 'science,' you expand the definition of science and throw the door wide open to any and every explanation."The invisible Flying Spaghetti Monster serves as an exaggerated example of just how you can twist facts to fit with a non-scientific explanation and sell it as scientifically proven.The parody works. I literally laughed out loud repeatedly while reading, and I was often amused by the parallels to "real" religions.However, since the basic idea of the book is not a complex one, the butter is spread a little thin at times. Henderson has to come up with many far-fetched ideas to turn what was originally an open letter into a whole book. On the other hand, the thinness of the material makes for faster reading.To me, this book is not so much an attack on religion as it is a protection of science against wrong applications of religion. But alas, the people who most need to hear this will probably be too offended by it to take its message to heart. To them, "The Flying Spaghetti Monster" might be simply a confirmation that all those who are pro-Darwin are out to abolish faith in God.For a more serious exposition of the same thought, I therefore recommendFinding Darwin's God: A Scientist's Search for Common Ground Between God and Evolution (P.S.). Miller, too, tries to protect the definition of science, but at the same time he encourages religious faith.You won't laugh nearly as much with Miller, though. For that, you have to stick to the noodly appendages of the FSM. I am not a convert (I still haven't swapped my normal clothes for a pirate's outfit), but I appreciate Prophet Henderson's crusade for the future of science.- Jacob Schriftman, Author of "The C. S. Lewis Book on the Bible"
5 Overall it's pretty good. It's worth noting that the book is actually a white paperback with a red-book picture on front.
5 I have studied many religions, beginning with several christian versions in my youth, and expanding to all the major religions of the world.This religion is the most fun filled, logical, scientific, and just good, I have ever researched.  I had been aware of it for some years, but until I read 'The Gospel of the Flying Spaghetti Monster' I did not realize how wonderful this religion is. After reading the Gospel, I found the loose canon online (available free, look it for it in PDF or E pub) and now I have become a Pastafarian (having been an atheist for the last couple decades).There are a lot of religions in the world, if you can only have one, make it this one.  If you are unsure give this one a try, &#34;If you don't like us, your old religion will most likely take you back.&#34;Seriously this is GOOD religion.  If you are searching for the truth there is no better place to start than with the Gospel.
5 Amazing content from the Profit, pasta be on his plate.  Which many others have noted, so I won't repeat it here.But per the concerns about the coloring-book quality of the construction--that's part of the whole farce!!!  Get it--beautiful appearance from afar, terrible when you look up close.  Just like religion.  God is love, but then the Bible condones slavery and followers start wars and blow up clinics.  See?
4 The Gospel of the Flying Spaghetti Monster is a hoot, depending on who you are (or more specifically what you believe and how willing you are to find humor in the origins of the universe).  This book will likely appeal primarily to people who are already fans of his noodliness, although it may appeal to religious people as well, provided they don't take it all too seriously.The Gospel of the FSM expands upon an open letter written by Bobby Henderson to the Kansas School Board regarding its decision, at the time, to include Intelligent Design in the science curriculum.  While it's fair to say that ID proponents make pretty easy targets, Henderson's letter was especially clever and extremely funny.  As a result, the letter soon made the rounds on the internet, a website was born, merchandising followed, and before long the atheist and agnostic community had found a prophet in 25 year old physics graduate Bobby Henderson and a Spaghedeity they could really get into.The original letter supports the notion that ID should be taught in school but feels that equal time should also be given to Flying Spaghetti Monsterism. You see, the FSM made the world in such a way that we would think that the earth is actually older than it is.  For example, when scientists conduct carbon dating of artifacts, what they don't realize is that the Flying Spaghetti Monster is there, changing the results with his noodly appendage.  Henderson goes on to explain that the FSM likes people to wear full pirate regalia and notes that there is an inverse relationship between the number of pirates on the planet and global temperature.  He closes the letter by saying that he thinks we can all look forward to a time when all three theories are given equal time in our science classrooms, one-third time for Intelligent Design, one-third time for Flying Spaghetti Monsterism, and one-third time for logical conjecture based on overwhelming observable evidence.  (Pretty clever stuff)The book doesn't completely manage to sustain the sharp satirical edge of the original letter, but there are enough laughs in the Gospel of the FSM to make it worthwhile.  The humor is a little broad at times for my tastes and some jokes fall a bit flat.  The overall effect is a little uneven.  Henderson is at his best when he is making clever social commentary or parodying religious texts/beliefs.  In `A History of Heretics' a footnote regarding Plato states: "Today Plato is nearly forgotten.  His beliefs include the notion that people who govern should be intelligent, rational, self-controlled, and in love with wisdom, an idea that has long since been discredited."  In parody of Genesis, Henderson offers readers The Holy Noodle, mimicking much of the language from the Old Testament text we are familiar with.  Of course, in the Holy Noodle, the FSM is so proud of himself on the fifth day that he celebrates by hitting the beer volcano hard that afternoon and waking up with a hangover.  He decides to take an extended break from the whole creation gig (which is why Friday is a holiday for Pastafarians and it helps explain the so-called Unintelligent Design of things like the Duck Billed Platypus, Jar Jar Binks, and Disco Music).In reality, the premise of the book is a little thin to fill 150+ pages and as a result there is some padding and some weaker material to help stretch out the page count.  Not every chapter is a winner, but when Henderson is taking aim directly at advocates of ID or providing advice on how to convert others to FSMism (he suggests seeking out celebrities like Lindsay Lohan who look like they could use a good meal) the book is laugh-out-loud funny.
5 Provides evidence of his noodly existance through scholarly articles, and preaches the pastafarian ethics with "What would a pirate do" and "The eight 'I'd really rather you didn'ts'"  It also reveals the truth of Dolly the sheep!
5 I don't see why everyone is complaining about the book being cheaply made. I find the book to be put together very nicely and it is well written. All in all this is a fantastic book that will make you laugh but also, cause you to think about religion and all the stuff they teach.
4 For maybe the first half of the book, I thought this was a very clever and insightful spoof of ID and I was smiling most of the time I was reading.  If it had ended there, I would have given it 5 stars.  Around half way, it became somewhat repetitive and the attempts to simulate mathematical proofs didn't do much for me.  I do consider the book worthy of sharing with other family members and friends who I think would appreciate it.
4 As a newly ordained pastafarian minister I thought I should be familiar with the gospel of the church so I bought this as an electronic edition for my kindle.There are a few chuckles scattered through the book but I was surprised to discover that I was already more qualified for my new ministerial duties than I thought.  Much of the information in the gospel is scattered around the Church's website, too.This book should be priced at around $3 for the electronic edition.
5 This is science, religion, satire and truth all in one.  It makes fully as much sense as traditional religion, far more sense than traditional science and it totally outclasses Congress and the US Senate.  There is real truth here.  Be careful, though. If you read this book, you will be converted.  I know I was.  I am now a true Pastafarian.
5 I loved this book.  It is not so much a gospel as it is hysterical. It definitely lays out the genious of Him (and Bobby Hendersen).  Plus FSMism really is taking off, it makes senses to me.  Just look around for the signs of Him, they are more obvious than you think.  I never knew I was Pastafarian until now, it feels good to finally belong to a disorganized religion.  Remember to take Friday off and enjoy a grog.  Argg!!!
4 I haven't read the entire book yet, but it's pretty funny so far. Even if you could just show it off to all your friends it would be worth it. I say go for it, it's worth the buy.
5 Bobby Henderson has written an amazing book with the incomparable assistance of the FSM!  Read and be amazed!  It will change your life!
5 great delivery speed and a wonderful book for anybody who is questioning religion. it shows how facts can be manipulated to correlate with something false to make it seem true...... like things in the bible.
5 Finally! I have something to show those who tell me Flying Spaghetti Monsterism is not a real religion because it doesn't have its own book.No the quality is not great but I have a feeling this went through  a vanity press.  SAve it though - future bindings may be fancier but this is the original!
5 Any religion that has a beer volcano and a stripper factory in the afterlife, and doesn't threaten eternal pain and suffering, is a religion I can believe in. And the FSM explains everything! I'm converted.
5 If you're a normal, intelligent person, you'll love the humor of this book.I'm not very well versed on Pastafarianism myself, but I think it's only purpose is to show the ridiculousness of organized religion and the fact that some people will believe anything. The Gospel of the Flying Spaghetti Monster accomplishes this in a very entertaining, enjoyable, and satirical fashion that anyone will enjoy.If you're an atheist (like me), an agnostic, or are just looking for a nice, hardy laugh, this book is for you!
4 You must have a bent sense of humor, and high tolerance for open mindedness, and hopefully a non-judgmental attitude to take this whole them in an appropriate vein.  Nevertheless, sorry to say, haters will probably love this stuff too.
5 As a science teacher, I believe that if we are to teach the controversy and let children decide, then we should teach ALL alternative theories to evolution, including FSM ideas.  In that case, this gospel would provide an excellent teaching resource.
5 Pirates being the chosen of the Spaghetti Monster.Recommended by a friend who's probably as twisted as I am.Very entertaining book! As you read it you actually begin to see the author's logic.Just plain fun!I did not like how the book ended, but I so thoroughly enjoyed the rest of it that I gave it 5 stars.And by the way..... I'm NOT an athiest.xoxMEF
2 The book is written from the point of a person who thoroughly believes in the FSM and that's fine. The point is to use over-the-top sarcasm to prove the point that belief without proof is ludicrous. But sometimes the author is not as extreme as he should be and the writing is not as entertaining as the reader would like.
4 Having heard so many interesting things about the FSM (e.g. 'Unintelligent Design', Global warming is caused by pirates, etc) I got this book expecting more of the same - a witty and razor sharp skewering of Creationism and the more tawdry aspects of belief...The good news is that this book has plenty more bits of material which are laugh-out-loud funny. The way the Great Prophet mimics faulty Creationist logic is hilarious (e.g. all the gr8 supporters of evolution (Carl Sagan etc) are dead - i.e. invalid!). Furthermore, the Photoshopped History, the questions section and the Holy Noodle (creation of the world) are all genuinely amusing and useful for the budding Pastafarian.Unfortunately, the bad news is that there is no coherence or discipline to the thoughts but, rather, it is a random patchwork of ideas and material fudged together. OK, all comedy needs to free-flow and leap from one great joke to the next, but this book seems to lose its muse halfway through and then just becomes like wading through appendices... Structure would also be useful for reference as I found the jokes I really liked were hard to find again without structure, or 'signpost' titles for each section.Overall, this book is hilarious and I read it in a day owing to the lucid writing and the way its language makes you want to go eat a big bowl of pasta! However, given that it is a gospel, it suffers from its lack of structure and rather over-bakes its premise (e.g. the boring 'Enlightenment Institute' section). So - buy it, but don't expect an authoritative tome...
1 Just another atheist disrespecting others' beliefs. Evolution appears to be their religion, as global warming is to Al Gore and his bunch. Funny how intolerant all these loving atheist liberals are. We are expected to believe their beliefs, but there is no tolerant for anyone else's beliefs.
4 My teenager showed me this spoof. Reading random segments of Bobby Henderson's book (and everything about it IS indeed random) causes shaking of the head, occasional whoops of laughter, and spontaneous eruptions of  "oh, my!" and "tsk, tsk!"It is definitely an appropriate comedic answer to the ridiculous state of affairs in modern US public education, where non-scientific points of view are being forced into the schools along with the fact-based content. (Superstitions and religious beliefs can easily coexist without having to be TAUGHT!) That said, the humor IS decidedly adolescent in flavor, and also decidedly shows little respect for real and honorable religious belief. For all its irreverence, however, it is occasionally very clever, and highly amusing.
2 I did finish reading it since its a fast book to read. But I personally dont understand the popularity of this book. Heaven and hell were not explained at all. It was sorta funny but not HAHAHA funny. Maybe I just dont have as good of a sense of humor as most people?
4 Having heard about the good word of the Flying Spaghetti Monster from [...] in my mind I had little choice but to learn more. In fact, you could say I was "called." At any rate, this book is hilarious, and very biting in regards to the Intelligent Design debate. Henderson makes all sorts of pointed comments that made me laugh out loud, but his real knack is for offhand remarks that make this whole creation vs. evolution thing seem like idiocy and time-wasting.Sadly, the book stretches far too long and runs out of steam about halfway through. After all, one can only read about the relation of pirate population to global climate so many times before thinking of all the just as unproductive things you would rather be doing with your time. Still, if you stop reading around page 100, you'll have enjoyed a fine piece of ridiculous literature (ridiculature) with minimal regret.
5 It is a paperback and full of funny irreverant stuff.  Its what every FSM minister should own.I would recommend it.
5 This was one of the funniest books I ever read in my life! I like how it's a religion that makes more logical sense than "real" religions, but is totally asinine. And some of the entries are just so out there they should make anyone laugh. It does make more sense that the creator of the universe was either stupid or drunk, given the state of things, than an omniscient, omnipotent, omnibenevolent being.
5 Like others, I was duped with the false advertising of the quality of the book.The book itself was great, funny and satirical.
4 Hilarious satire at its best. Drives home the point of religious freedom and tolerance. Great reference for those &#34;the scripture says&#34; moments.
5 If there is anything that is true it is that fundamental religion will destroy us all...that and a lack of pirates to thwart global warming.The Gospel of the Flying Spaghetti Monster is quite possibly some of the greatest satire of religion since Johnathan Swift.While I am a religious person, the many ludacrious things that the church and other congregations have proposed have bordered on that of hypocracy and stupidity.There is no denying of Charles Darwin's theory of evolution, but fundamental religion continues to forget what created the materials to spark the creation of life.  The answer may just be in the Asian food section of your local grocery store or it could be a divine being that allowed science to do all the rest.  Its sort of how a wad of dough becomes spaghetti.Bobby Henderson's satire reenlightens the masses.  RAMEN!
5 I work nights here in Ireland and the strangest thing just happened to me. The canteen was serving meatballs and pasta tonight - it tasted awful, so sticky that one of the pasta strings (unbeknownst to me) touched my arm and stuck to it. Then I got a coffee and had it at my computer. I then noticed the pasta on my arm and as I tried to remove this....noodly thing....I knocked the coffee over my keyboard. I got a cloth and tried soaking up the mess, patting the keyboard this way and that, in between keys...then Lo and Behold, purely by random, I had opened a search engine and entered: "The Gospel of the Flying Spagetti Monster - Your Search Is Over". I hit the search key and it said "did you mean Spaghetti ?" (like, with a 'h'), Oh, yeah I must have. And Lo and Behold I find my true Redeemer had indeed, and literally, touched me with His Noodly Appendage and directed me to The Truth. However, being scientifically minded and skeptical, I tried to re-create what happened, and Lo and Behold - I DID ! this time with a 'h' in Spagetti. It's a miracle ! I tried to re-create it a third time but they'd run out of meatballs. I am overcome with joy. Where do I send the money ?
3 A caution about the Kindle version, specifically:  The Kindle version lacks the visual ques (such as shaded text and the like) that apparently are used in the paper version to let the reader know whether the author is speaking or some person with an alternate view is speaking.  As for the book, it is best when espousing the gospel (entertaining, religiously plausible of course, and if you don't feel like dressing as a pirate after reading it, you must be suffering from a crisis of faith) and worst when it is presenting direct arguments against "intelligent design" simply because there are other writers who do a better job of that part.
3 but this book got boring after a while.  There is only so much time that the one conceit for a book can be fun.
5 Beautiful and accurate explanation of the Creation of the Universe by the FSM. Bobby Henderson is both a Prophet and a Scholar combining the attributes of those who wonder in the Desert in search of Divine Truth with those who seek a rational explanation as Nobel Prize winning physicists do. Bobby is the Stephan Hawking of the True Reality.
5 Really, the hundreds of reviews before mine covered it. Ultimately, although you might just happen to come across this book, you probably didnt bother to look unless you were already aware of the FSM. If so, you probably bought and enjoyed this book just like i did.Pastafarianism has become quite the cultural counterpoint to the better known organized religions (Christianity, Judaism, Islam, etc...).All i can really say to you is....R-amen! :)
3 Bobby toys around with a lot of human and religious concepts here. Often it's not clear what he really believes. Is he making fun of religion or not? Is he just writing a fiction about his new monster or is he trying to be an agent of change?At the least, if taken seriously, he might make you think about your own beliefs -- and either strengthen them or unravel them altogether. Could even be dangerous for those young minds that are trying to navigate the waters of faith in God.One thing that seems to be clear is that Bobby has little or no experience with the experiential side of a personal relationship with God. If this is the case, then he doesn't thoroughly know the subject matter he is dealing with and can only present the &#34;head knowledge&#34; side of religion (falling far short of being able to address the phenomenal option of a life actually conversion with the Spirit of God).
4 I will say this is one of the funniest books I've read in a long time. I also suspect that at least a few people reading this will suspect it serious or an attempt to capture their souls for Satan, but that could be my own arrogance & blatant contempt for the IDers. The book basically parodies their movement, by providing an alternative explanation which could also be taught in classrooms considering that ID is as baseless as FSMism. RAmen!It's been said before, but the binding is a bit flimsy & pages are like the kind you would find in a typical school workbook. (Maybe it belongs in a school, that's why it was made that way? Hmmm.) So, if you are going to be passing this around to your fellow FSM worshippers & hopefully, potential converts, perhaps you should invest in a plastic cover from Brodart or buy the imported hardcover version.
5 OK, here's my conundrum.  I LOVE the book. Its witty, engaging, extremely well written, and damn clever.  My only gripe ( and it's MY fault, i know) is that I didn't realize I was buying the paperback version.  See, the picture on the cover of the paperback IS a picture of what appears to be a a leather bound hardcover or the like.  Now, to be fair, I'm still giving the book 5 stars, because its that good. It's not so much that I'm giving the book 5 stars; it's more along the lines that Bobby Henderson EARNED 5 stars, and it would be petty of me to give the book an unfair rating because of my mistake. (I HATE when people give a book a bad review because their order was late...). Anyway, that's my story and I'm sticking to it.  RAmen.
5 It is not the funniest romp available and reads a little like a thinly stretched out good premise. However, in these shallow days with little disposition for debate, cynicism is often the only appropriate rhetoric tool. So, if you're tired of trying to explain why you're an atheist, buy the FSM Gospel and charge your opponent as a Atheist himself!
5 Which proves that FSM is a good diety!  The gospel is good news for those who need to have an enjoyable and loveable higher power.  The proof by communion is so clearly acceptable that I can't imagine not being able to accept His Noodleiness for what He is!  May his noodly appendage allow you to enjoy this book as much as He allowed me to!
1 Books designed to make a mockery out of key principles that could change the way we view life often make claims not based on evidence but on the author's own personal biases. Sadly Bobby Henderson's The Gospel Of The Flying Spaghetti Monster is no different. For those who have not had the displeasure of reading Henderson's parody, he begins by introducing the reader to his god, the Flying Spaghetti Monster (FSM), and its revering pirates, the so-called Pastafarians, who await a heaven that is filled with beer volcanoes and stripper clubs.Down on Henderson's imaginary earth, there is plenty of evidence for the FSM- everything from the noodly appearance of DNA to the spaghetti-like structure of the Great Wall Of China stands as testimony to the existence of the pasta god. Reading on one quickly realizes that Henderson is out to make a point (he says so himself)- if there is a place for teaching Intelligent Design (ID) theory in the science classroom of today's public school then there is also a place for teaching about his 'FSMism'. Indeed Henderson argues that since ID theorists claim that evolution is just a theory, so too are other parts of established science such as Newtonian gravity.To make his point he sets up a farcical scenario in which gravity is simply the manifestation of the FSM pushing on the heads of his human creatures. Over time humans have got taller simply because the FSM, with his limited number of noodly appendages, is unable to keep his pressure on all the heads of the ever-growing human population. None of this is of course meant to be taken seriously. After all, Henderson is just ridiculing ID.Nevertheless a quick glance through Henderson's book reveals some clear gaps in his understanding of what ID theory does and does not say. For example, Henderson claims that the primary objective of ID theory is to slip the supernatural into science so as to create a 'super-science' the likes of which have not been seen since the middle ages. Accepting the claims of ID in science, Henderson states, is akin to accepting medieval medical practices such as bloodletting into our hospitals.And yet it is well known that the foundations of the ID movement are built upon scientific evidence that would not have been available to scientists in centuries past (irreducible complexity of molecular systems, the exacting requirements of embryonic development and genetic regulation and the information-rich content of DNA). ID theory has never attempted to slip a supernatural god into the 'gaps' of science but has always used a sound 'cause-and-effect' type approach using what we know about design to infer design in biology.Henderson hits hard by suggesting that ID proponents have a problem in accepting not only the link between natural selection and antibiotic resistance in bacteria but also the powers of artificial selection in dog breeding (Of course ID can sit quite comfortably with these more limited forms of Darwinian theory). He likewise shows a complete disregard for the issues concerning vestigial organs. While often touted as evidence of a blundering evolutionary process that has not yet fully eliminated organs that have fallen into disuse, what is becoming clear is that many such organs do fulfill important physiological functions. Similarly, recent discoveries in molecular biology have shown that long stretches of so-called 'junk' DNA do indeed play critical roles in the regulation of gene expression.Later on in the book, Henderson conflates supernatural creation with ID, bringing in the violence of religion, particularly Christianity, as one more reason to do away with any cogent arguments that ID theory might bring to the science 'table'. Henderson not only vilifies the religiously faithful by mocking the power of prayer but also shows that he has never bothered to investigate the scientific underpinnings of the ID movement. After incorrectly associating ID with Young Earth Creationism, he then proceeds to ridicule a God who would deliberately confuse people by creating a universe that is only a few thousand years old and later throwing in evidence that supports a much older creation.Henderson continues by making a farce out of the Genesis account and the biblical moral teachings. He selects the wrong targets to support his case against what he sees as the dogmatic approach of the church to science (eg: the execution of Giordano Bruno whose burning at the stake was because of his religious beliefs, not his views on science). He clearly ignores the established fact that it was Christianity that provided the foundation upon which our universe could be understood scientifically. Of course ID theorists have categorically steered clear of equating their designer with the biblical God, using only principles commonly used in other fields of study to infer design in biology.In The Gospel Of The Flying Spaghetti Monster, Henderson shows his complete lack of appreciation for modern-day challenges to science. To claim as he does that the peer-review process is a water-tight tower of objectivity is to ignore high-profile cases of scientists who have dared challenge established orthodoxy (Stephen Jay Gould's punctuated equilibrium is a case in point). Henderson dismisses the 'irrefutable proof' offered by Michael Behe in support of ID by asserting that Behe's examples of irreducible complexity are as incomprehensible to those outside of mainstream science as Kurt Godel's proof for the existence of God.Perhaps unbeknown to Henderson is the recognition of Behe's Darwin's Black Box as one of the most accessible reads of contemporary, popular science. Of course one soon gets tired of hearing about the pasta deity and his pirate disciples not to mention Henderson's apparent obsession with noodles. He ends his book with a collection of bogus, fun-poking papers written by scientists who clearly have an ax to grind against ID. Most of these papers are just more fairy-tale imaginings of pirates, noodles and beer volcanoes all of which do little to strengthen Henderson's case. Likewise for Henderson's humor which at times exposes his lack of originality (I was surprised not to see Henderson claiming that 'carbonara' was the essential element of life, that angel hair was a vestige of the FSM's celestial army or that DNA stood for Deity's Noodly Appendages).While ID clearly has a place in the science classroom, the spaghetti bowl of FSMism should remain in the school canteen. As for Henderson's occasional vulgar language, one can only conclude that he is short of real props to support his case.
3 Bobby Henderson, The Gospel of the Flying Spaghetti Monster (Villard, 2006)Can I get a Ra-men? The Gospel of the Flying Spaghetti Monster is here, and pirates the world over rejoice. If you're familiar with the noodly one, you've probably got a good idea of what to expect here-- it's offensive, it's lowbrow, it's amusing, in some vague, distressing sense of the word. It is, overall, a parody of the Intelligent design movement, and as such, it is filled with pseudointellectual parodies of scientific papers aping those written by proponents of ID. In this vein, the book is too much of a good thing; half the pseudoscience and twice the offensiveness would have worked better, I think. But then, as a dedicated pastafarian, I'm much more interested in slurping up a big plate of spaghetti than wondering how we all got here. ***
5 Completely irreverent  book that examines logic and dearly held beliefs in a manner to make one see the ridiculous in both.  Loved it.
3 This was an interesting book, good parody of ID arguments, some fun moments, a bit disjointed after the half-way point.
5 As a long time FSM convert I can testify that when one is touched by the true god's noodles or tasted the bounty his Meatballness offers all free, you will forever be changed.  Come forward all of you lost people and discover the truth that will set you free.The FSM view of creation must be taught in our public schools and our laws must be changed to allow everyone to find out how the one true god created mankind - evolution is a bunch of voodoo crap, and Intelligent Design is just a branch off the same decayed tree of lies.
5 Don't pass this one up.  It arrived really quickly and I settled in for a delightful read.  I was not disappointed!  &#34;Many a truth is said in jest&#34; - this delightful little tome is loaded with 'em!
5 Let me start by saying that The Gospel of the Flying Spaghetti Monster is  a great read in a less than steller book.  The quality of the paper and the cover a more like a grade school workbook than anything else I can compare it to.  That said, reading the words as written by the Prophet, Pasta be upon his plate, Bobby Henderson is a riot!  There are jokes throughout this book that are genuinely Laugh-out-loud funny, like the evolution of the tail bone for fighting or the War of Aggression against pirates wages by the Harri Christnas...The book is comprised mostly of a satirical look at the ID movement and claims of the religious kooks out there.  There are some rather brilliant passages that are really just ID transposed as FSMism, making one think quite often "how do they believe this crap?"There are some other aspects of the book that read more like "Genesis" than the "open letter" that The Prophet, pasta be upon his plate, is famous for.  These are entertaining and serve as a solid foundation for faith in his Noodly presence.  But it's the revelation of the FACTS that truly reveal the Glory and prove the existence of our Noodly Master.Oh, and BTW, DO NOT fall for the review of Mr. John Smith.  He's trying to shill his book "God Speaks!  The Flying Spaghetti Monster in his own Words."
4 I get asked what is my religion or belief system frequently. I grow wearing giving ambiguous answers. This book takes care of things, provides a published, peer-reviewed reference and puts the question at rest.
3 I've always loved the idea of the FSM, but I have to admit, the book was pretty lackluster and poorly written. Maybe this is what happens when you take a great simple idea (like the FSM parody) and try to turn the simple idea into a full book. There's simply not enough &#34;there&#34; there for me. A for effort, C minus for actual execution. (Sorry, sorry - just felt let down by what COULD have been a truly amazing classic.)
5 And blessed be those who turn towards our pirate-loving god from other meatballless gods, to the belief in a beer-volcano in heaven and to the one, truly succulent god of meatballs and tomatoey sauce. For whom else would allow us to write words like "meatballless" and "tomatoey"? And whom else would provide us with a plan to end global warming that is more intelligent than anything Bush and his pirate-hating cronies have come up with?
4 I've been aware of the Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster, aka Pastafarianism, for several years now, but only recently did I devote myself to studying its teachings.  This book, The Gospel of the Flying Spaghetti Monster, is insightful, illuminating and often hilarious, but it suffers somewhat from being padded out with uneven FSM-related articles that others have written, as well as some duplicate material in the "pamphlet" section.  And while I saw frequent references to certain aspects of FSM Heaven, including a Beer Volcano and a "Stripper Factory", I was hoping to get a bit more detail so I could properly anticipate my future residence there. (Is the beer hot or cold?  Is customization of the strippers available?)My only real disappointment is that the book does not have the pictured form of a red-covered book with a noodle placeholder.  Rather, it is a larger paperback volume with a *picture* of a red cover and noodle on the front and back.  I think I could convert more people to FSM if the Gospel had a more traditional "religious tome" look.  Then again, FSM doesn't go in for the usual pestering for donations of more traditional religions, so I suppose this is what we have to make do with for now.  Anyway, I'd worry that a noodle placeholder, an aspect of His Noodly Appendage, might break off if dry, or smear the pages if wet, so perhaps it's for the best.
5 great book.  shows logic fallicies and misinterpretations in a humerous manner.  great read, even for the heathen not having been touched by his noodly appendage.
5 Hail fellow Pastafarians! With this book you can learn all about our great religion and the FSM. Hilarious and informative, it should not be missed.
2 I am a sitting science and mathematics educator.  I found this book at once entertaining and disturbing.  It is crucial to the future of America that problems with such material be spelled out--and avoided.Satire is a valuable tool in helping us step back and see things from a fresh perspective.  This book would be a success, if, by reading it, people of faith and people whose faith is scientific obstinacy were induced to do that.Instead, Henderson lampoons theistic faith to advance doctrinarism further widening the gap between those who would accept their scriptures literally and those who believe unwaveringly in (provably mutable) theories.  One could as easily produce a book of satire lampooning the history of science (with an emphasis on contemporary fallacies and their adherents) making fun of all sorts of Great Minds (Pauling and Einstein come immediately to mind) for holding wrongheaded beliefs.What's needed in this debate is more sanity and clarity, not perpetual cycles of teasing and belittling.  Vine Deloria has written a fine book (Evolution, Creationism, and Other Modern Myths ISBN: 1555914586) in which he exposes fundamental flaws on both sides of this debate; his book convincingly argues that "creationists" framed a debate to which "evolutionists" fall prey: pursuing unanswerable questions.By reacting to traditional, religious fervor by analogy, Henderson remains dogmatic.  The irony that disturbs me so is that the author adheres to a secular creed no less rigid or illogical than that which he parodies.
5 A book for those that do not take religion seriously, and a book for those who need a gift to give to those who take religion seriously.  The best way to combat fundamentalism... laugh at them.
5 This is an excellent book. It makes a very clear point. It's message is honest. Beware, it is not for everyone. If you are a follower of a &#34;faith based&#34; way of life, this will challenge your beliefs. Please read this with an open mind. It will make you laugh. It has a clear message, and the message is; watch out for the flying spaghetti monster. Why not? Why can't this be the image of god?
5 I consider myself a reformed atheist. I used to think that religion was just outdated moral codes, an easy way to repress others and your own emotions and desires, an excuse to do bad things to people of other religions, a reason to never have to think for yourself, and a great way to deny and frown upon actual scientific data, but now I see the light. This book has changed my point of view. FSM is real.
5 Bobby Henderson has spun his initial humorous poke at Intelligent Design into a rollicking argument for the existence of the Flying Spaghetti Monster, which includes arguments against (and kinda sorta FOR) modern science, the TRUE history of pirates, and the facts about how the FSM has not-so-carefully guided human history.I splurged and got the hardcover edition and am pleased.  It's nicely bound and has a red ribbon place keeper.  Definitely autograph worthy, if I ever happen to meet the Prophet Henderson (Pasta Be Upon Him).Worth getting if you dig skepticism, fact-based education, and parody.
5 This title is what I consider a silly masterpiece. It's satire and faith based psychology rolled into one giant meatball.For some reason, even Time Magazine many years ago dedicated a cover to the matter, people seem to have what Time called; A god gene. This innate desire to hold faith in something that holds faith in them, as products of it's creative force.FSM (Flying Spaghetti Monster as he's known to his faithful "Pastafarian's") represents all of that history. It's food for the soul served on a plate of fine writing and honest insight into the human faith based traditions world wide.You have but to open your eyes to see what this fine text is really trying to say. But I would recommend foregoing the grated Parmesan in the process. It gets in the eyes of the FSM and he that knows all, is everywhere present, infinite and capable of flight as he answers prayers and makes wishes come true, may lose altitude and crash to the ground. Yet another god form relegated to the fate of Pastafixion. The second coming only to be afforded many years later in a cloud of steam and preceded by a host of angel hair Pastafarian's carrying colander's  and heralding the immanent return of yet another plate of sacred noodly appendages. (*Wink wink nudge nudge with just a dab of red sauce to get your attention. ;)lol)
4 Purchased after reading a review in Scientific American.  It is a truly wonderful "defense" of Intelligent Design, written by a physicist using purely scientific methods and sure to sway any doubters.  A truly hilarious work, it will be found particularly offensive by those who would most benefit from serious consideration of its contents.  (I suspect will at least slightly offend nearly every reader.)  I loved it!
5 I've just ordered the book, so I haven't yet read it, but I'd like to call attention to a delightful and positive review in the Books section of the June 06 Scientific American.
5 (First, i must say this is really a 4-star book but everytime i tried to set it to 4 stars, the Flying Spaghetti Monster (FSM) kept changing it back to 5 using His noodly appendage!)If you don't already know what Pastafarianism is, The Gospel of the Flying Spaghetti Monster is the definitive word on this hot new religion!  The FSM created the universe and set things just so (such as dinosaur fossils) to test our faith.  Pastafarianism sets itself apart from other religions because it is backed by tons of scientific evidence.  FSM followers call themselves Pastafarians and dress in the most reverent way possible... as pirates!  Pirates are on the decline and FSMism clearly points out based on scientific evidence that global warming is on the rise due to the decreasing numbers of pirates in the world.ok, hopefully you get the point now.  FSM is an attempt at reductio ad absurdum against religion.  As silly as it sounds, its quite affective at proving its point and revealing the absurdity of religion.  However this book is of poor quality.  I fully support FSMism, and if you do as well, you might want to purchase the book just for that reason.  But, you Pastafarians won't find much more information than you probably already know and the entertainment value is sub-par.  Henderson could have really done a MUCH better job here.  Looks a bit rushed and quite repetitive.In any case, its still a fun read, especially to give to those that want to convert!  Highly recommended solely based on its message alone.
4 When American writer Annie Proulx purchased land in Wyoming with plans to build a dream home to complement the landscape, she began an emotional and intellectual journey of discovery and quiet adventure. She named the property "Bird Cloud," and that too is the name of her latest book. BIRD CLOUD is a not-quite memoir that traces the first years of her ownership of the property, including the only year she lived on it full time. It's an examination of a piece of land, but more than that, it's a rumination on place, history, ecology, home, work and community.Before the space of Bird Cloud is fully described, Proulx begins with an interesting look at her family history. But this traditional narrative is soon replaced by tales of other domiciles, her plans for building the house, poetic quotations, examinations of pine cones, meditations on wind and weather, the execution of the house building, the history of the land both anthropological and ecological, and a lovely ode to the eagles and other resident birds that nest in the trees and cliffs surrounding the house.BIRD CLOUD is a tough book to describe and sometimes a bit difficult to read. It often feels intensely personal (like reading a journal), and the pace is not always even. Proulx drifts from subject to subject, which can be alternately fascinating and frustrating. Some sections are dramatic and beautiful, like when she writes about the pairs of bald and golden eagles who nest so close to her house that she can watch them for hours and get to know their habits. Others are technical and detailed, like when she records the minutia of building her house --- from the crew she hires to the materials they used to the problems with the electrical outlets.There is no denying Proulx's literary prowess, her keen powers of observation, or her gifts as a storyteller. Perhaps more than anything, this book should be understood as a tribute to Wyoming --- its breathtaking vistas, plentiful wildlife, ferocious storms and hardy peoples. In that way it becomes, instead of a rambling tale of various components, a celebration of the place and a mindset of openness, of possibility, and the past and the future coming together in a contemplative and intimate moment of force and beauty.Yet, as she rambles, Proulx comes back to the same themes again and again, and the most intense of them here is home. A bit of a nomad, Proulx's physical restlessness is reflected in her writing style. She moves from home to home, roams the Wyoming landscape and travels around the world. But for a period of time anyway, she returned to Bird Cloud to watch the house grow, to watch the lives of the animals who were her neighbors, and to watch the seasons change.So BIRD CLOUD can also be read as a celebration of home: those we find, those we create, those we dream of, those we stop in for a moment, creating memories and dreaming dreams until we move on once again.--- Reviewed by Sarah Rachel Egelman
1 I have been a fan of Annie Proulx for years ... ever since discovering her with one of her wonderful stories in The New Yorker.  I have bought every one of her hardcovers since then, (short of How To Make Apple Cider!), and have enjoyed them, especially her Wyoming stories, since I come from and went to high school and College in Wyoming and worked at Eatons Ranch, out of Sheridan, for many years.  Her last two books I was disappointed with: the dark and gloomy. "Accordian Crimes", and now the hopeless "Bird Cloud", which I so looked forward to, I bought it in advance.  Here Annie buys land in southeastern Wyoming, without surveying it's year-round weather conditions ... the County doesn't plow her road in the winter, so she's either snowed-in or out! Then she endeavors to build a glitzy, fussy home more suited to the Hamptons than the North Platte, and spends the balance of the book whining about it's cost over-runs, and construction difficulties in the boondocks. Luckily, she's wealthy from her literary output, so she pours hundreds of thousands to tart the place up with hopelessly fussy accutrements and deluxe furnishings, a Japanese soak tub, polished concrete floors she keeps changing the colors of, amid countless architectural mistakes ad nauseum, to where I just didn't care any more.  Her main descriptive largesse involves the bird population thereabouts, worrying about the eagles nesting, as well as the neighbors' cattle marching down the creek onto her property.  Some of her descriptions are wonderful, and vintage Proulx, but she lost my interest when the basic story (if there even IS one) of a wealthy single woman pissing-away millions of dollars building an inappropriate luxe house in a country more suitable to a nice log-cabin.  Now I hear the place is up for sale for $3.7 million.  Good luck to her in this market!  I hate to think that Annie Proulx, in her eighties, may have her best material behind her.
5 I enjoyed the details, both construction and nature, the author's perspective, all of it!  Delicious!  [???5 more words required~rules like this make we not want to send reviews!!!?]
5 I will let others deal with the entire book which, by the way, I have read. And liked. But it is chapter two, "A Yard of Cloth," that many may skip but shouldn't. And I'll tell you why.It is generally known that Annie Proulx lives a solitary life. And many of her fans who have gone to see her when she has been on tour acknowledge that this is an author who quite clearly does not enjoy that part of the requirement placed now upon published authors. So this is what I think happened, prior to the writing of this book: her publisher urged Ms. Proulx to write a memoir. After all, they are very popular. And I think Annie Proulx said to herself, "Okay, you want memoir, I'll give you memoir. I'll give you every detail of my family history."I come from a family that traces its roots back to The Mayflower, specifically William Bradford. But apparently my great-grandfather might have sired my grandfather through an "Indian" (that is not to be confused with India). Anyway, I was going to skip this part until I said to myself, I think the author is up to something here, that she is being totally satirical. And what you, potential reader, have in store for yourself is really wonderful as Ms. Proulx slips in those sentences that say it all such as, after describing in too much detail the great-grandfather who sired forty children (maybe), this: "If he had lived today he could have had his own television program." I, like Ms. Proulx, have a sister who is proud of her Native American roots. She is quite certain of those roots even though others in the family say, "No way, Jose."Or when she gives details and then tosses in, "It no longer matters." Indeed! And, of how she quickly dismisses males in her family!Then you will come to this paragraph opener: "A child bgins to think about his or her name and perhaps subconsciously reacts to it." I won't tell you more. Read it for yourself. By the way Vaca is "cow" in Spanish. Just in case you don't know.So this is my picture of Annie Proulx at the moment: sitting in her house, isolated in Wyoming, far enough away from the Prince of Darkness himself, the other famous person from the state, Dick Cheney, saying, "I don't think they'll ask me to write additional memoirs. Now I can get back to fiction."
1 On pristine acres, amidst the natural verity of open space, Annie Proulx sets about superimposing her vision over the rugged beauty. The pastoral is not meant to be enjoyed, but reworked because the author must indulge her self-absorbed, petty minutiae ego on how to build a house, no actually, a "home," an ode to herself. She has failed grandly both in the quest and the memoir, which is self-indulgently unreadable. Thoreau failed too, absent the selfdom:From my "The Rogue Henry David Thoreau"What sort of evil madman goes to the American woods and builds himself an English cabin that is made out in plaster and shingles? It goes against the very grain (pun intended) of the all-American, throw-it-up, log cabin which is entirely more conducive to the sounds and smells of nature pouring through its ill-fitted logs. How quaint this English cabin, wrong on so many levels. Perhaps our man Thoreau was an English spy, plotting to overthrow the Stars and Bars with his army of muskrats, turtles and butterflies.To Annie Proulx: Wyoming is indeed rugged, a spirit that absolutely refuses to be documented. The monumental film disaster that is "Heaven's Gate" tried in vain to capture Wyoming's Johnson County War of 1892. It was and is an overly obvious artifice and tagging your book a memoir makes it no different.
2 First you slog through several boring chapters on her mostly uninteresting family ancestry, then you get many more chapters of her trials and tribulations about building her obviously incredibly expensive "dream house" and the resultant (mild) disappointment that everything isn't perfect.  She then claims the building is breaking her budget all the while insisting her every whim be granted.  And when things get too stressful, she manages to find the money to "flee" repeatedly to places like Ireland and Capri.  Her descriptions of wildlife and her love of it are the chapters worth reading, as well as the briefly given history of the place, but not much else.  If you enjoy reading about "troubles" most of us can't even imagine then this book is for you but, despite her class as a writer of fiction, she's displaying none of it here, instead coming across as over-privileged and insufferable.
5 The best books teach us something new and cause us to contemplate our own connections to the subject matter.Here veteran author Annie Proulx shares with us her search for an inspirational place to live and to write.  She eventually purchases the "Bird Cloud" property in the grasslands of southeastern Wyoming and proceeds to have a house built there.  But before she delves into its construction details, she considers the myriad and variety of houses she has lived in during her lifetime.  Her lengthy list is enough to stir the reader to think about his/her own history and the decisions that led to choosing those residences.  It's a trip down memory lane on the page for Proulx as well as a similar review for us as we invisibly compare our paths with hers.We quickly learn that even Pulitzer Prize-winning authors can have their share of challenges when faced with architects, builders, specialty sub-contractors, and the harshness of Wyoming weather.  Being famous and well off are no guarantees that Proulx's project will be either swift or smooth.  (Those of us who watch home improvement shows on television may not be surprised by the kinds of glitches she runs into, however.)  She's fortunate to have found the local "James Gang" to help her with her immense and expensive undertaking.  At various points she (and in turn, we) have to wonder if the new house will ever get finished and if the result will ever be as perfect as she had hoped.  We root for both.Being an outsider to the area, Proulx feels compelled to research the people and the wildlife that have been historically present on her land.  We get the impression that she wants to honor that past as best as she can.  She also learns to live and work with the raw elements of the region:  the mud, the snow, and the ever-present wind.  Once she moves into the house and that chapter of her life is complete, Proulx turns her attention to the world outside of those walls.  She offers us a year's worth of animal sightings, with special attention paid to the amazing birds that live in the neighborhood.  She might often be the only human on that acreage, but she is far from alone.Readers who enjoy Ms. Proulx's construction chronicle may want to find other tales of writers in search of their own creative yet livable spaces.  Options abound.  Two compelling books that come to mind are Michael Pollen'sA Place of My Own: The Architecture of Daydreamsand Kate Whouley'sCottage for Sale, Must Be Moved: A Woman Moves a House to Make a Home.  Both projects are smaller by comparison but are filled with their own special building quirks and peculiarities.And of course, if you are intrigued by Proulx's descriptions of Wyoming and want to continue living there through the eyes of others, you could turn to John McPhee'sRising From The Plains, any book by Rick Bass, or the Wind River Reservation mystery series by Margaret Coel.In the end:  "Bird Cloud" -- as both a book and as a tangible site -- leaves Proulx and her readers pondering the true meaning of the word "home."
3 I'm a big Annie Proulx fan, and I'm writing a memoir, so I did what I rarely do - I splashed out and bought the hardback edition of Bird Cloud.  I wish I had waited.  To me it read more like a journal of a few years she building her "dream" house at Bird Cloud, and the first year she lived in it.Proulx remains an enigma to me.  No insights into her childhood or life before Bird Cloud.  Just a little family history inserted into one of the early chapters, but nothing revealing.  Very little about her children and nothing about how she got them.  I started scanning the book for something that interested me and did not become engaged until she began to discuss the plight of the Lodgepole Pine and its devastation by the mountain pine beetle.  Here, at least, something was at stake.I skimmed over the construction details and got lost in the names of the army that built it.  The lessons drawn from her experience were fairly interesting, and for some reason I plugged into the saga of the floor, and its final crowning.  And I could not help thinking that she published this book to try to re-coop her massive losses in building the house.I found the Indian ecology and archaeology interesting, the idea of checkerboard land-owning by the railroad barons, but again too many historical names got the way for me.I enjoyed the idea of her cross-country skiing and bird-watching, but even I who enjoy bird-watching, found the detail tedious. I'm sure there will be some, especially those from Wyoming, who might enjoy this book, but for me it was a disappointment.I feel as if I've spent a little time in Annie Proulx' company, but still don't know her very well. But then I guess that's the kind of person she is.
3 One of my favorite writers.  If it's by Annie Proulx, it's a sure fire great read.  But this isn't fiction.  It's the story of building a house in Wyoming.  The project was agonizing.  Maybe all construction projects are, but this one gets to be tiresome.  An enormous amount of money must have been spent for all that special luxury material sent out into the middle of nowhere.  Perhaps in the current economy the whinning seems distasteful or selfish.
1 Had she not been a successful author already, this book would not have been published. It was so DULL. Self pity seems to be the underlying emotion and that's always a drag. Save your money--if you must read it get it at the library, if it hasn't already been culled for the book sale.
2 There have been other memoirs dealing with ill-conceived building projects, but this project- and the book documenting it- are more ill-conceived than any other I know.The author decides to build a very expensive and ambitious house in a remote area, and then is surprised when it proves to be far more difficult and expensive than she imagined. Which is  a perfectly fine topic for a book, but the whole book is tainted with an air of entitlement and unacknowledged privilege, and the author blames everyone else when things go wrong. Was virtually everyone she dealt with that incompetent, corrupt , and lazy, or was she just asking the impossible? And all this for a house that turns out to be impractical to live in for almsot all of the year.The book is padded with unrelated narrative strands, and the good qualities of her fiction are absent here. This is a story of extravagance ill- suited for our times, and unfortunately boring to read.
4 bird cloud by annie proulx. the highlights of this book are the building from scratch of a housein wyoming. the full process of permits, etc and how tough it was to even find the right people tobuild it. the nature and background of who settled there first was good. the nature really enthalledme to keep reading, such beautiful things in life.  this sets me up to read the wyoming series that ihave put together in various media forms for the upcoming week. should be fun to sit back and read.
4 Annie's years long adventures and mishaps to build a house (Bird Cloud) will resonate with anyone who has ever done it, no matter what the price tag.  She reminded me while I will never build again. Pulitzer Prize winners have the same challenges converting emotion and visions to a finished place as the rest of us.  Although she was operating in a budget range most of us will never see, she gained my empathy.  I wished there had been a few photos of the finished home (I found some on line). Well written in usual Proulx style with candor and beauty.  The chapters and references to the birding (including raptors) and other animals including mountain lions) on the property will appeal to anyone who has rejoiced in wild things. And I'll just mention the surprise ending, but you'll have to read for yourself to find out.
5 Ms. Proulx exemplifies the ins and outs along with all the setbacks that are never figured in...but always happen! Yet through all of her effort(s) to maintain a positive attitude she manages to bring about a most astonishing description of what must be absolute and sheer beauty! Her property must be even more beautiful than her vivid descriptions of the wildlife contained within...or what migrates in and out with the seasons! But she always comes back to the basis of the writings and that is the ongoing construction of "Bird Cloud" as well as the upgrading of the property. Does it come to fruition? Read the book!
5 Bird Cloud is not so much a personal memoir as it is a memoir about the author's mind, her wide-ranging and fascinating interests. Her own family history. The history of the land where she chose to build a home (but encountered constant difficulties and obstacles during its construction). Her poignant recounting of the European settlers' violence against both wildlife and native Americans. And her constant vigilance over and delight in the many species of birds that also made their home on her acquired land.For those who have marveled at Proulx's fiction, this book offers a look at the sort of mind from which that body of work emerged. She appears to have the inclinations of a scholar and the spirit of a pioneer
2 As always, Annie Proulx has a wonderful way with words, and it turns out she has a way with birds as well. But the whole work is a bit cloudy. Architecture intrigues me, but there wasn't much there. The birds provide some continuity, but no real depth. I was hoping for a modern, beautifully written, positive variation on Mr. Blandings Builds His Dream House. Didn't happen. I never felt much focus for long as the work wandered, never quite making a point. She continues to do wonderful things with  words and with Wyoming, but in this case I was never sure why.
4 It is common for a reader who enters an Annie Proulx novel or short story to find that it grows on you page by page, layer by layer, as her sure carpentry builds a fine and strong effect.  That was my experience with the non-fiction "Bird Cloud."  If in her best fiction Proulx carpenters untold stories into life, this new work finds Proulx retelling old stories, resurfacing tales of history, geology, geography, climate, biology.  Her evident pleasure in doing so means that many readers will be pleased with the telling.Take note of the book's cover, a photograph well-selected by Proulx herself, for it is a true harbinger of what the 234 pages inside will bring.  It is not a mistake that you cannot see the house whose three-year construction (2004-2006) some publicity material and some reviews mistakenly suggest is the main subject of the book.  You are right to imagine the sky and the rangeland extending to the horizon hold multitudes."Bird Cloud" is not a Wyoming version of "House," Tracy Kidder's 1985 book that meticulously recounted the planning, design and construction of a New England custom home. Proulx offers us no blueprints, no floor plans, no budget details, no additional photos. Yes, she parcels out a few practical "how-to's" and a selection of vignettes (mostly about construction snafus and disappointments), but the house-related material occupies less than half of the book's content.The building is not where Proulx fixes her emotional energy. Her heart lies elsewhere: in side-tales about her family's genealogy; in stories of the "rapacity and venal grasping" of all too many of Wyoming's founders; in the terrible legacy of insults to the land, its game animals, its Indian inhabitants; in a child-like delight she takes in the "archeological possibilities" of her 640 acres; and in her experience of  the raw power of nature at 7000 feet above sea level, where hurricane-force winds and isolation-inducing snowdrifts are routine. The book's emotional apogee is the final, and longest, chapter -- a narrative tracing an arc of 12 months through the lives of the site's abundant bird life. In these pages Proulx, an amateur as a birder but first-rate as a raconteur, unleashes a warm observational humor.The book is vulnerable to two criticisms. One is that "Bird Cloud" lacks an overarching theme.  It hosts lots of little stories but does not have a big story, and readers who demand a pointedly consistent narrative experience may be disappointed.  Another criticism is that the book's subtitle -- "a Memoir" -- is misleading. That is true. This is not a "memoir" as that label is understood today, in our era of no-holds-barred confessional outpourings. Anyone expecting Proulx, a famously private author now in her eighth decade, to lay bare the intimacies of her personal diary, to expose her emotional core, or to explain, for example, how her three divorces have shaped the woman she is today, will come away empty-handed. Proulx is one author unlikely to appear on Oprah's couch.If you see yourself as a potential reader of "Bird Cloud," consider first reading a rare and lengthy interview conducted at her Bird Cloud Ranch, published in the Spring 2009 issue of Paris Review. It is available for free online; just Google the three words, Paris Review Proulx.  The interview is a useful companion piece, especially since "Bird Cloud" itself contains surprisingly little material about Proulx's writing habits.A set of 24 color photos the property appear on the website of photographer Wayne Thom (Google the four words, Wayne Thom Bird Cloud).  As of April, 2013, it appears the property is still available for purchase (Google "Bird Cloud Ranch" and Sale).
3 "Let me tell you all about the trials and tribulations of building my million dollar house on hundreds of acres." Kind of a self-absorbed little tome, but well written of course. And the natural observations were terrific. And I love all her other books...
5 This book is a description of her experience of building a house.  The successes and failures of meeting this challenge was fascinating to read about.
3 I thought this memoir would be similar to Frances Mayes' Under the Tuscan Sun, and it was, in a way.  Of course, this book is about the building of new house in Wyoming, as opposed to restoring an old villa in Tuscany, but many of the problems are the same:  acquiring the property, poor workmanship, budget overruns, plumbing disasters, the difficulty of living in a space that is under construction, etc.  In both books, the most reliable and skilled workers become almost like family.  However, Bird Cloud opens with an overly long section about the author's father's family history, and this just seemed like filler to me.  The middle section is about the process of designing and building the house, and the pace of the book picks up after the genealogy section ends.  The final section is devoted to birds on the property, and I have mixed feelings about that section.  I think she wanted to make a point about the fact that no matter how much effort and expense you put into building a house that is friendly to the environment, you are almost certain to disrupt some habitats.  In one instance, a flock of birds (I forget the species) stopped feeding near the house because the landscapers replaced the weeds with a native grass.  The finale is an homage to the bald and golden eagles that take up residence near the house and is immensely sad, while at the same time depicting their resilience.  Certainly the fact that the house is unreachable in winter is a showstopper, but possibly her guilt over its impact on the wildlife may taint her love of the surrounding beauty enough to force her to sell it.  We'll see...
4 "Bird Cloud" is a book about place. About where the heart is. In a sense a book about history as well-- where the heart has been and is.It's a very expansive book that involves the 640-acre nature preserve that the author bought on the North Platte River in Wyoming.  And as my title suggests there is likely to be something of interest in this book for near everyone as Annie describes the designing and building of the home she placed on the site, her feelings about it, her observations about the wildlife in the area, her neighbors, and the lands history.My own favorite parts were the little Proulx described of her childhood and family.  The other parts I thoroughly enjoyed were her discussions of birding and history.  The birds fit into her descriptions of the land itself, as does the history.  You definitely get a good idea of the factors that led to this region's development.  The train barons and the cattle and sheep barons, and the Indians there before them.  These widely differing topics connect because of Annie's keen intellect.  The result of her exploring all the various aspects of her land: how she related to it, and how that piece of earth interconnected with the 'bigger picture' of North America's growth.In addition to these topics, we get 'the skinny' on how her home was built. I doubt there's a soul out there who has purchased and lived in a home, especially if they've had one built, who won't be able to identify with the trials and tribulations of home ownership that she describes.  Apparently, even for the rich and famous, houses are  money-pits.THE SKINNYEntertaining book.  Reading it is like having a friend describe to you about how their home was built. The good. The bad.Despite the 'starred' reviews by the 'great names in reviewing' Bird Cloud won't be for everyone.  Their are characters, yes,  but the story is offered more as a series of brilliant essays.I enjoyed it.  Bird Cloud was well written and for me worth  adding to the home shelves.Pam T~
4 While staying a couple weeks at Brush Creek Ranch Foundation for the arts, also near Saratoga, Wyoming, I read BIRD CLOUD. It started slow for me and picked up. She wrote honestly about events in her life that included her childhood, building her house on the North Platte River, explorations with archeologist and geologist friends, bird life, blizzards that blocked access to her home, and the lawlessness that continues in some ways in Wyoming.I didn't mind the way she skipped from topic to topic, since I'm interested in many of the the things she wrote about. And I felt empathy for her struggles and disappointments, as so many things went so wrong and at such a high price. I lived in and renovated an old brothel near the Continental Divide in Montana, and while my  project remained rustic and not at all grandiose,I can relate to how difficult it is living in a remote construction project during the winter.If you don't require a strong story arc and can relax into a rambling style,this is one thoughtful person's honest account of what life can be like for a modern-day homesteader in the harsh, spare and beautiful landscape of Wyoming.
2 A hotch-potch memoir that links in past history, ecological observations, archaeology and horror home owner tales. Each chapter focuses on a different theme, so at times I found myself darn interested (Proulx's personal memoirs and local history) and other times quite darn distracted.It really does feel like Proulx enjoyed researching the book more than actually writing it. Her research skills are phenomenal, but it sits uneasily here in between moaning about building a luxurious house on her own beautiful land with thousands of books for her to kick back and read as those eagles circle around the mountains outside. Are we supposed to feel sorry for her?I'm an intensely loyal Proulx reader, but it is time to use those research skills on her short stories again rather than telling us in detail about how crappy the concreting on her floor was.
1 instead of exploring the motivation to move to the remote region and describing the impact of her move on her life and her writing Bird Cloud reads like a disjointed extended whine about cost over runs wandering cows and the frustrations of picking paint colors.  It is about as interesting as watching paint dry.  Shame o Ms Proulx for her self indulgent rant.
4 I would just like to sit and visit with Annie Proulx. Just to absorb some of the air she breathes. Where do her stories come from? How does her mind work? God, she is a marvelous author.
3 Cross Bill Bryson's At Home with Jane Kirkpatrick's Homestead and you'll have something like Annie Proulx's memoir, Bird Cloud. The Bird Cloud of the title is a beautiful home in a beautiful location, but the book investigates the whole concept of home and home-building, starting with the many places the author has lived and ending, nicely, with the many migratory homes of birds.A similar parallelism continues throughout the book. The author's quest for her family's roots, searching through family trees and ancient documents, is mirrored at the end of the book with a search through rocks and stones for the history of her land and the ancestral people who shaped it. Her longing for a wonderful floorplan is paired with an engineer's longing for room to work. And her quest to find ultimate perfection is proven as flawed as the quest of others to create it.Filled with detail about the construction of walls and floors, and balanced with glorious prose describing the wonders of nature's construction, Bird Cloud felt like it should have been more fun to read. Maybe it just didn't resonate with me--I'm not that keen on the search for perfection. But it is a rich slow read, not entirely satisfying, not entirely frustrating, but definitely interesting.Disclosure: Our book club decided to read this book.
5 Bird Cloud is a memoir like not other.  Proulx is a terrific writer -- one of our very best -- and she approaches the whole idea of memoir from a new angle.  This story incorporates family history, the ambition to build a "perfect" house contrasted to the actual experience, American history of the West, observations of the natural world, which elements are like the puzzle pieces that, when put together, give a complete portrait of Proulx herself.  She never tries to reveal herself through self-serving "biographical facts" but through the flow of her week-by-week experience buying land in Wyoming (and the land itself is an aspect of her -- a big one) and the energy and determination she puts into building an ambitious house with all the difficulties entailed in finding architects/builders/contractors in a state with a mere half a million people, on a piece of land with a road that does not get ploughed in the winter (so she can't live there all year around).  The house itself reveals so much about the author and about how important "house" is as an ideal to strive for. It is an aspect of her and shows her attitudes, her interests, her singularity, her solitariness and her empathy with the local birds, especially the raptors (she has 4 pairs of eagles to watch and worry about), her incredible work habits -- writing isn't the half of it --, and her family.  I loved this book so much that I spent the whole day reading it.  Maybe it's not for everybody, but it's for anybody who wants something truly revealing.  And I had a very good idea about what being in that house was like when I finished.
5 Have the audio book and LOVED IT.  Got the book for my sister because she live in Wyoming at one time and thought she's enjoy it...I was right.
5 I can shamelessly say that Annie Proulx is one of my favorite authors. Her talent is nothing short of amazing. "Bird Cloud: A Memoir" was given to me by a friend. Since it is a book of non-fiction, I wasn't sure what to expect. But as soon as I started reading, I was pleasantly surprised. While "Bird Cloud: A Memoir" is a book of history, it is also a journey into the mind of a gifted writer.The story revolves around the construction of Annie's Wyoming home, but along the way we learn about her family, "The James Gang", and other interesting people. I've always been attracted to the author's keen eye for character and her dark sense of humor (Brokeback Mountain is a good example). It was nice to see that humor shine through in her non-fiction, as well. In "Bird Cloud" I discovered yet another thing to appreciate about this talented woman: she has a heart as big as a bus barn. During the building of her Bird Cloud home, Annie cooks for her workers, pays them generously, vacations with them, and includes them in her personal life. I ask you, who else does that kind of stuff? It made me happy to discover that someone I greatly admire is also so kind and compassionate.If I were going to have a literary hero, I would certainly choose Annie Proulx.
2 To be honest, Ms. Proulx is one of the greatest descriptive writers out there. She can describe a sunset, animals, people with just the fewest of paint strokes (if she was a painter.) Great metaphors and similes. She just can't be beat in that department.However, she runs dead short when it comes to actual STORY. I can see why she writes short stories. She just can't run the whole triathalon of a whole novel. She ends up running out of steam at around mile 5. I tried reading The Shipping News. I was well into the book before I gave up. Had NO idea what it was about or where it was going. So I rented the movie which got to the bones of the story and then there was no need to read the book. Same for Brokeback Mountain, a very good short story, read it all in one reading. However, as a movie, Hollywood had to put meat on that one's bones too.I haven't read Bird Cloud and won't. I got some LA Times reviews sent to me. I've been to Wyoming many times and those people are salt of the earth and I can't imagine what they thought when Proulx came waltzing in with tons of money to build a humongous house for ONE person and the frivolities she wasted the money on.The review said she obessed FOUR YEARS over a Japanese soaker tub, atami-mat exercise area, Mexican talavera sink and Brazillian floor tiles. Not to mention years to find the right handcrafted deer antler drawer pulls! If Ms. Proulx lives near the N. Platte River then she's in the Casper/Ft. Laramie/Cheyenne corridor. This is not Beverly Hills. Heck, it ain't even Denver! Lots of working class stiffs just hanging on to what little they have.Ms. Proulx also has some terse nicknames for the workmen who probably were terribly unfamiliar with the useless, but expensive amenities in her house that no doubt cost more than they made in a year. I'm sure those people have some pretty terse nicknames for her too, basically words rhyming with "rich" and "witch". I'm sure more than once they knew that the cost of these household frivolities would buy cattle, a new pickup, new tires, engine, fencing, clothing and dental work. I'm sure most of these ranchers barely squeak by year after year. Ms. Proulx, waltzing in with more money than she could spend and an attitude, must have seemed a bur under a saddle blanket to these "regular" people.But getting back to lack of story and substance, one long line in the review went as following: "I like a colorful, handily cluttered kitchen and bird Cloud's cabinets and drawers in red, violet, aquamarine, burnt orange, cobalt, lime, brick,John Deer green and skipjack blue inspires stir fries, osso buco, grilled prawns, Argentinean salads of butterhead lettuce, tomato, sweet onion, roast lamb with Greek cubumbeer and dill sauce, frttatas, rhunard sauce with glasses of dry Riesling for the cook. You bet."Now I'd like to see Ms. Proulx walk to the nearest greasy spoon and talk to the cook and waitress with that sentence and watch the pupils of their eyes shrink down real beady like! WTF is she talking about??? As you can tell, the book seems extraordinarily self-indulgent. She must be a terribly bored and boring person. She is like a driver without a car. She needs to meet an author who is metaphorically a car, one who can tell fantastic stories but doesn't have the poetic gifts to do so. Then there would be a BOOK worth reading!No stars for content, 2 for her poetic writing.
4 The subtitle of this book is the clue to its unusual format.  It started out with Proulx's earliest memories and a bit of a history of the family and seems to be organised in bundles.  Occasionally the same information is returned to from a different direction, so to speak.The footnotes pop up in unusual places on the Kindle (ie. not at the foot of the page) and, like many Librarything contributors I was a bit confused and annoyed. But the story was fascinating, the history, the house building, the wildlife and the trees.I really wanted photos and spent a lot of time looking things up.Almost thoroughly enjoyable!
2 This is the fourth novel about Katherine Parr that I've tried to enjoy.  The other three I didn't even finish so I guess that could be considered something positive about this book.  It was an easy read.Unfortunately I found the Epilogue to be far more interesting than the book. I wanted to learn about the life of Katherine Parr and I don't feel like I know anymore about her than before finishing this novel.  The story that Suzannah Dunn wrote could be about anyone.****SPOILERS AHEAD****The focus of the story is Katherine Parr's best friend Catherine Brandon's adulterous affair with Parr's husband Thomas Seymour.  Mind you this affair is completely fictionalized by the author and there were never rumors about the two at the time of Parr and Seymour's marriage.  Dunn states the relationship is of her own imagining.  What I don't understand is why the author didn't focus on the relationship between Elizabeth Tudor and Thomas Seymour.  I think that would have made more sense given that their relationship was supposed to have really happened.****END SPOILERS****I also didn't care for the contemporary narration and dialog.  It really took some getting used to.  It felt completely disconnected from the history of the story and I had a difficult time reconciling the two things in my mind.  I also didn't care for the characterizations of these historical figures, especially Catherine Brandon.  I didn't find her actions believable.I have also tried to read the following books about Katherine Parr; The Ivy Crown by Mary Luke, The King's Pleasure by Norah Lofts, The Last Wife of Henry VIII by Carolly Erickson.  All without success.  There seems to be two extremes, they are either very, very, dry or simple and melodramatic.  If anyone can recommend a novel about Katherine Parr that doesn't fall into either category I'd appreciate it. Plaidy counts as very, very, dry in my book.
3 I was really looking forward to this book, I had read another by this author earlier in the year and liked it quite a bit.  And I liked this too, but it took me a bit of time to adjust to the viewpoint and way of speaking in this one.The book is told from the viewpoint of Catherine of Suffolk, the last wife of Charles Brandon, who was a great friend to Henry VIII.  Cathy, completely by coincidence, is a great friend of Katherine Parr, Henry's sixth and final wife, and we pick up the story right after Kate marries Thomas Seymour, going through the last year or so of her life.I think that's the part I had a hard time with - I'd like to read a bit of a story about Kate's time married to Henry in addition to the time afterwards.  We see so much fiction about several of his earlier wives, and if I'm being honest, that's the interesting part about Katherine Parr - that she was married to Henry.Anyone who reads into the latter wives of Henry probably knows how Kate's life goes...she's married to Henry in his twilight, is nearly arrested, outlives him, marries Thomas Seymour, and dies shortly after giving birth to their child.  This book kept me guessing as to how the author would factor Elizabeth I into this story, as she was allegedly involved in a somewhat scandal with Thomas, and it kept me on edge with wondering when that would come into play.  Although I didn't love the way it all came about, I have to admit that it was an interesting portrayal into the lives of this family for the short time they were together.While I didn't learn anything new from this book, I did enjoy the tale.  After my initial adjustment to how it was written, I felt it was an entertaining telling of this story, and I really enjoyed having Cathy as our main character and reading from her point of view.  I'm looking forward to reading more by this author!
4 Considered pragmatic by her friends especially the Duchess of Suffolk Catherine Brandon, twice widowed Katherine Parr became the sixth wife of King Henry VIII, a position not known for its longevity.  Perhaps it was the experience gained from being wedded to two much older husbands, bur Katherine proved her practical nature by surviving four years with the elderly monarch until he died, making her unique as the Dowager Queen,.  Within a few months of becoming a widow again, Katherine marries Thomas Seymour, whom she was in love with before Henry "exiled" him to Brussels so he could marry her; he since has returned to England and become a confidante of Princess Elizabeth.  They have a daughter Mary, but was her last marriage a happy one ponders Catherine as Thomas seems more fascinated with the princess than his once royal wife?This is an interesting biographical fiction novel that looks deep into the latter part of the life of Katherine Parr, mostly from just after she became a thrice widow.  The story is told almost exclusively by Catherine looking back after Katherine has died in 1548 so lacks a historiographic counterpoint as the subject's best friend distrusted her last ambitious husband, who she believed married the "Widow" for her political connections.  One interesting side note is that the vernacular used is twenty-first century (explained why by Suzannah Dunn in an afterward) so that purists who prefer Shakespearean English should pass as the idioms are technologically modern; thou who find Shakespeare as "ye olde" English will appreciate the anachronism.  Well written, THE SIXTH WIFE provides a fascinating slant on the Tudor age especially life near the top during the five years after Henry's demise.Harriet Klausner
2 It's rare for me to dislike a book about Tudor England. It's even rarer for me to read a book about Tudor England and feel as if my time was stolen from me. But rare or not, that's exactly what happened when I finished reading Suzannah Dunn's book "The Sixth Wife".Describing the life of Katherine Parr--sixth and final wife to Henry VIII--after Henry's death, "The Sixth Wife" attempts to explain Parr's marriage to the roguish Thomas Seymour, her ensuing pregnancy (her first), and the misery that happened because of it. While Dunn keeps to a historically accurate timeline in "The Sixth Wife", she takes the creative liberty of throwing Thomas Seymour and Catherine, Duchess of Suffolk, together in an affair.The dramatic tension in "The Sixth Wife" is supposed to come from the fact that Suffolk and Parr are best friends, with Suffolk betraying Parr in one of the worst ways possible. While that might have worked in another story, or even the story Dunn was trying to tell, it had nearly no effect whatsoever on making "The Sixth Wife" more interesting, nor did it add any depth to the characters. In fact, it merely served to make Suffolk--the narrator of the story--even more simpering and unlikeable than she was at the beginning of the story.While there can be no denying that Suffolk had a difficult life--sold as a ward to the aging Duke of Suffolk, married by 14 and a mother twice over by 16--Dunn has her do little else but recount the early difficulties of her life throughout "The Sixth Wife". While her unceasing mentions of being a wife and mother when she was a mere child herself are meant to add some kind of depth or meaning to Suffolk, it loses its effect quickly. And despite her own hardships, Suffolk comes off as cold and uncaring and uses her hardships as a crutch to avoid personal responsibility.One such responsibility is her affair with Seymour. While she claims to feel bad about what she is doing to Parr (while Parr is pregnant and looking to her for guidance, no less), she claims that she cannot help herself, and that Seymour is the only one who can see who she really is. But as events unfold throughout the story, Suffolk eventually comes to despise Seymour and decides that she will do anything to prevent Parr from discovering her affair with him. While Suffolk claims that it is for Parr's sake, it is obvious that it is for her own comfort. When she isn't busy convincing herself that she is trying to protect Parr from the ugly truth, she convinces herself that she deserves to be happy with Seymour because of the difficult life she's endured."The Sixth Wife", like the events it's based on, does not end happily. Readers can expect to find Parr descending into a kind of madness after birthing her child (she dies not long after) and being lied to by both Seymour and Suffolk on her deathbed. While the story could have ended there, Dunn spends the last chapter of the story showing what has become of Seymour--currently imprisoned--and the heartless way that Suffolk says the words that she knows will condemn him to death.I really wanted to like this book; I was excited that Dunn was tackling the life of Parr and not the events surrounding Elizabeth and Thomas Seymour after the death of Henry VIII. In those stories, Parr is always a secondary character, and audiences get to know very little of her. But despite its name, I found "The Sixth Wife" to be no different; while the story did center more on Parr than those that I have previously read, it focused primarily on Suffolk, her emotions, and how Parr looked through her eyes.
3 Newly bereaved, Katherine Parr, the sixth wife of Henry VIII, makes an impulsive marriage early in her widowhood. The dashing Thomas Seymour is not a man to be trusted, given to protecting his own self-interests at any cost. Parr is an attractive match, her funds sufficient to put a smile on Seymour's face, the woman having despaired of ever having children, now in her 30s. But the charming Seymour changes all that, Kate enchanted with the handsome fellow she has married. Perhaps it is Kate's naivet&eacute; that leads to her marriage; desired by the sophisticated, charming Seymour, Kate can be forgiven for falling in love, especially after the uncomfortable years with the ailing, cantankerous Henry, avoiding the fate of Henry's other wives through his demise.At the beginning of the union with Thomas Seymour, it is Kate's friend, Catherine, Duchess of Suffolk, who supplies the sardonic narrative, questioning Kate's motives and innocence in the face of an ambitious, sly husband. The young Elizabeth, daughter of Anne Boleyn, happily takes up residence with the newlyweds, the thirteen-year-old queen-to-be out of place in Mary's Catholic court. Long a favorite of Kate's, Elizabeth is fresh and curious, not oblivious to Seymour's flirtatiousness. It is Elizabeth's presence in the household that the Duchess of Suffolk questions, as well as Thomas' motives in marrying Parr. To anyone with knowledge of the Seymour's in Henry VIII's England, Thomas hardly stands out as a beacon of loyalty, courage or honor. An attractive, scheming man does not necessarily a good husband make.History tells us that Parr dies in childbirth, the young Elizabeth the subject of much contention in the Seymour household, coveted by Thomas, protected and trusted by Kate, the girl's grand fate yet to be played out on the world stage, as well as Thomas's end. The problems in the marriage and her own particulars are related by the Duchess of Suffolk, the chapters filled with the duchess's musings, judgments and personal failures. My problem is that the author uses the most cursory details to support her novel, reaching for a kind of intimacy that is unfettered by substance. The lack of detail becomes tedious: "the formidable queen Margaret Beaufort and the sparkling new Spanish one"; "women had had a setback, we'd come through difficult times"; "the locking away of one queen and the execution of the next".The author makes clear that she chose to write historical fiction in this manner, but I read such fiction for the period details and political issues of the era. Without that background, the specifics of time and place, this is a novel about two women, a love affair and a betrayal, ultimately rendering the story dull. Katherine Parr's tragic life is interesting because she was married to Henry VIII, because she died in childbirth and married a rou&eacute; with more than love on his mind. History literally defines some characters and their relevance to the times they inhabit. Dunn seems not to appreciate this fact; the result, a novel without spark or curiosity. Luan Gaines/ 2008.
2 This "historical" novel did not have enough good meaty historical information.  It just is a very light, flimsy story and left me a bit frustrated because frankly it just wasn't very good. Not recommended.
5 It provides good describitions, has almost everything you could possibly dream about. Just don't look up too many dreams and analyize them too much or you'll end up losing some fun. Dreams are made to help us relax and wind down from the previous stresses of the day. Analyzing all your dreams takes the fun out of dreamingNow Nightmares, those are good for interpreting. The show what your sub-conscious is stressed about or the cautions about someone or something that might have recently happened in your life.All-in-all it is a very good dictionary to have. It even has a very good index in the back.
5 I have been a dream saver for 30 years...both in and out of therapy.This book has the finest cross-referencing and extensions I have ever used. I highly recommend it for any dreamer wanting to know.
5 This book kind of reads like stereo instructions. Very informative and gives great incite.  I really liked it a lot. If I need to find out what my dreams represent, and I am in a rush, I turn to the back pages the, &#34;Dream Directory&#34; and I have the answer I am looking for. Very good book for the experienced and the beginner.
5 This book goes in-depth about dreams that I never thought was possible. Ms. Chung also gives you tips on how to create your own dream book. I also recommend getting Dreaming The Divine by Scott Cunningham.
5 Well, did you ever have these dreams that you just KNOW mean something?  I mean, they're different than the jump-around nonsense dreams. Every so often I do, and I thought it would be fun to get this book and check themout myself.  (I used to ask a girlfriend who was pretty good at dream analysis.  Now I do both--look it up AND ask my girlfriend.  Then I look to see how the 2 analyses match up.  Where are they the same?  And did she come up with something I missed?)  Anyway, it's fun.  Sometimes dreams throw something up in our face that we need to address in some way.With all that said, this is a pretty impressive book with some good information.  It is  a full sized, hard cover 678 page book.  We are talking some serious information here.  Of course, you should probably read the whole book, then play with it by looking things up.  No, I did NOT read the whole book.  Here's how I use it:Let's say you have a dream.  You are walking across a bridge.  Under the bridge is lots of water and the water is rather violent.  You walk across the bridge without fear and you make it to the other side, unhurt.OK.  So, you go to the index in the back of the book and you look up "bridge and water". "Bridges" appears on 5 pages, so you look them up and read.  "Water" appears on about 16 plus pages, depending on what you were doing with the water (traveling on it, drinking it, etc.). You start reading and see if it makes sense.  Of course, this is the dollar store analysis I'm giving you right now.  You may have more stuff in your own dream, and when you go to the page, there are often other questions.So water symbolizes emotions and opportunities for enrichment. In Greek mythology, river crossings are often associated with death or a journey into the unconscious. Crossing a bridge indicates an ability to move forward and achieve the success you long for.  It represents your underlying strength to cope with difficult challenges.  The bridge is a potential link of your past with a possible future.So, if I was analyzing this dream, I might conclude (depending on any additional circumstances in the dream) that I was moving forward into the future and was quite capable of handing anything (emotions, etc) that came up in my transition, even if the "waters" became turbulent.  And not only was I CAPABLE, but I successfully crossed over the bridge/achieved the transition.  At this point, I might look at other factors in the dream and see if that analysis makes sense to me based on what is going on in my life.Don't buy this book if you're a worry wart and you are gonna read a bunch of negative crap that will depress you.Do buy this book if you're interested in analyzing your dreams to either learn more about yourself and/or just for fun.If you want a dream analysis book, this one has a heck of a lot of info!
5 I am a professional counseling psychic/astrologer for almost thirty years and help clients interpret dreams, plus my own dreams guide my life intuitively. This is the best book ever as a resource. The information comes from a very clear place and there are many possible interpretations offered. Every possible symbol seems to be included (it is over 700 pages!). This can be useful for dreamers and developing psychics wanting to understand more about the images they see.
5 I have looked through sooo many books like this one, but this is the best that I have found and I highly recommend it.
5 I had to buy a paperback version of this very insightful book.  The hardback version of it is coming apart at the binding at some of the pages, so I use some 3M Magic Tape to keep the loose pages together.  I keep the hardback at work and the paperback at home because it contains such handy information.
5 I had a dream about a ufo a few days before I found this book. I asked my angels what it meant becaues I'm a Doreen Virtue fan, any how The clair audient awnser I got afew days earlier was the same as the meaning in the book.I prefer your intuition over a book of symbolisum most of the time, however If you are stuck for what something could be this would be a great too to help you get un stuck.
3 I have to admit that I read "Alfred and Emily" backwards.  I read the account of the actual lives of Lessing's parents before I read the story of the fictional lives that she gave them.  I had read, in reviews, that the story of the fictional lives is unexceptional and the reviews are correct.  Indeed, neither part of the book is brilliant but the book itself is a moving example of a woman (Lessing) in her old age coming to terms with memories of her parents and of the way they behaved towards her and towards one another.  Those of us, in middle age and older, whose relationships with our parents were far from what we might have desired, would do well to ponder, as this book makes us, what our parents lives would have been like without, for example, the Depression, World War 2, or the Holocaust.Lessing's fictional lives of her parents, her account of who they might have been and how they might have found satisfaction in life, should stimulate her readers to imagine other lives for their own parents.  In these other lives, our parents might have been more loving and tolerant, less judgmental and withholding, and more satisfied and fulfilled.  However, in Lessing's fictional account of her mother's life, she implies that her mother's greatest regret was that she never had a child.  Thus, there is a lesson to be learned from "Alfred and Emily" that Lessing teaches us with skill and dignity.
3 This is a somewhat unusual book. Nobel Prize winner Doris Lessing chose to write about her parents, Alfred Taylor and Emily McVeigh, but rather than stick to their actual lives she took the liberty in the first half of the book to imagine them as they might have been had there never been a World War I. The second half of the book deals with them as they actually were.Lessing imagines her parents as what they seemed to have wanted to be-a farmer and a head nurse-who never married each other. The farmer had a wife and family. The nurse married a doctor who was not a very loving individual and who died young. Alfred and Emily met each other, but never were a couple, in their daughter's imagination.The imagined story is stilted and old-fashioned in style. Possibly because the main characters were people she knew well in other circumstances, Lessing doesn't do much with their development. While events occur, she doesn't really give any insight as to why the individuals behave as they do. Toward to end of the novella she finally gives them some life, but by then it is hard remain interested.The second half of the book that tells about their real life is rather rambling and disjointed. Lessing is 87 years old and in the manner of many older people she seems to repeat herself fairly often while describing her parents' life.The real Alfred Taylor wanted to be a farmer, but he went to "The Great War" and lost most of his right leg from shrapnel wound. He spent a very long time in the hospital recovering and that is where he met his wife, Emily McVeigh, a nurse. She was a wonderfully talented upper-middle-class woman who decided to defy her father's wishes and became a nurse. After the war they moved to the British colony of Southern Rhodesia. Alfred tried to farm, but nothing about the land was like the English farm of his dreams. Emily suffered from a nervous breakdown and Alfred was always suffering from post-traumatic stress syndrome.I suspect that readers who are very familiar with Doris Lessing and her other works might find this book enjoyable. I don't feel that it holds up well alone. Lessing seems to expect that the reader already knows a great deal about her life. That, coupled with the disjointed style, makes the book less than I had hoped for from a writer of her stature.Armchair Interviews says: Heed this reviewer's comments.
5 At the age of 88, Ms. Lessing has created a hybrid biography of her parents. The first section is an alternate history of their lives where they do not marry and go on to happier, fulfilling lives. The second part is the reality of their unhappy marriage (and Ms. Lessing's unhappy childhod) and the negative impact that World War I had upon their lives with the many deaths they were exposed to. One has the sense that this book is a summing up and looking back on her life to where it all began.
5 Doris Lessing's latest book, Alfred and Emily is just amazing! Her wit is cynical, subtle and extremely thought provoking. As the fiction and nonfiction collaborated, Ms. Lessing managed to get my mind spinning. I remembered things that I had "forgotten" in my own childhood. While being captivated by her wily ability with words, I couldn't escape thoughts of ways that I imprinted my children with my own history.In this "non-tribute" to her past, Ms. Lessing triggers this reader's desire to exhume many things that I had long since buried. I am looking forward to reading her other books.
3 As a devoted fan of Doris Lessing for many, many years, I found "Alfred and Emily" extremely disappointing; in fact, I wonder if it had not been better for her literary image if she had never written it. It was a book that I kept putting to one side, wondering whether or not I would eventually have the energy to see it through to the end. The prose is laboured and the two parts - the real and the fictional - work against each other to cause confusion. The idea of writing two stories about her parents, both as they were and as Lessing would have liked to them to have been, did not work for me; it is possible that the book may have gained by being completely factual or completely fictional but not as a mixture of both. I also felt that Lessing used the book as a platform to expound on her own talents, which, for me, seemed very out of sync with what one would expect from Lessing. There is a point where the dancer hangs up his/her dancing shoes, and, perhaps, there should also be a point where the writer lays down his/her pen.
4 This work is a little like looking at an endless series of reflections in multiplied mirror images. Although the book is ostensibly about Ms. Lessing's parents, you feel a quest for her self-identity in every sentence. She seems to have a sort of survivor's remorse for having prospered in literature after having sprung, almost miraculously, from the stunted roots of her parents' shattered dreams.The book opens with a novella in which Ms. Lessing imagines what her parents' life would have been like if World War I had not occurred and her mother had married the doctor of her dreams.  From there, Ms. Lessing provides a brief note about the Royal Free Hospital from The London Encyclopedia. In Part Two, Ms. Lessing recounts the lives her parents lived after they married and her youth in Rhodesia.The pain of World War I is so great that Ms. Lessing has trouble incorporating it into the novella or the nonfiction narrative. Clearly, the demands on her father, a badly wounded soldier, and her mother, an overwhelmed nurse dealing with casualties shipped fresh from the front, created more than the straw that broke the camel's back of normalcy. From that point of view, it's an antiwar book more than anything else.What would her parents' great energy have led them to do in the alternative? She sees her father as a successful small-scale English farmer, rather than a failed Rhodesian one. She sees her mother emerging as a force behind better education rather than as a woman who is felled by a breakdown in Rhodesia.It's natural to think of your parents as heroes and heroines, but that must be most difficult when their heroism mainly consisted of dealing with pain and frustration.Perhaps the most interesting aspect of the book is to contemplate your own parents and to ask, "How would their lives have turned out differently if . . . ?"  From there, you can cogitate all you want about the effect on whether you would have been born . . . and how you would have been different.In a sense, it's a play on the common childhood fantasy of believing that one is a royal orphan who has been placed with commoners for safekeeping before the evil contenders for the throne can kill you.Is it interesting? Yes. Is it something you must read? No.
5 I was not too pleased with the first fictional part of this book but when I read the second part I understood why Doris wrote the first part.  What a hard life they all had in Zimbabwe once known as southern Rhodesia!  But such a wonderful life:  the story of the black bull calf touched my heart.  and the food! and wasn't her father handsome?  The boring  life she invented for her parents living separate lives might not have been one they would have liked it at all.  That is the puzzle of life. Love makes hardship  worthwhile.  But of course, war screws everyone but George Bush and his friends.  Krupp was the Bush family of World War one.  Does it matter? No.  Doris' parents seemed to her to have been crushed by an early eqivalent of the Bush family.  She couldn't wait to escape.  And now she revisits her childhood and pities her parents even though she was aloof to her mother for ages.
3 Unfortunately, this book did not live up to my expectations...Half of the book is written as a novel, in which Doris Lessing gives her parents lives they never had. It spans from 1905 to 1935, with the First World War never happening, which to me seemed very strange... The other half tells the story about what really happened, and about the author's childhood in Africa, which unfortunately wasn't very interesting, at least not to me...
5 "Alfred and Emily: A Novella".  Alfred Taylor is a farmer who becomes affluent and marries a warm caring local.  Ignoring the rage of her father, Emily McVeagh leaves town and goes to London where she becomes a nurse who marries a doctor.  World War I never occurs so they never meet as a wounded soldier and a nurse."Alfred and Emily; Two Lives.  Alfred Taylor was severely injured in combat on the continent.  He was medically evacuated back to a London hospital.  There he met Nurse Emily McVeigh.  As he healed, they fell in love and got married.  They move to Rhodesia after the war and have two children Doris and Harry, but their colonial farm fails.This is a fascinating combo historical biographical fiction and a short biography.  The novella is a terrific alternate history of the author's parents while the biography provides a short guide to compare what if to what happened.  Fans of the great author will appreciate this fine book although the fiction overwhelms the nonfiction as the latter is too minute for newbies and too repetitive for fans while the former provides an intriguing look at probably what would not have happened if the liberating of the masses did not happen because the mechanism WWI was never fought.Harriet Klausner
4 There are some lessons to be learned from Doris Lessing's new book, "Alfred & Emily", but one among them is that older people harbor feelings with much more depth than most of us realize. In this two-sided offering, Lessing does a remarkable job in first giving us the fantasy world in which her parents might have lived, then completes things with a look at her real life growing up, much of it in Rhodesia.The first half (and the more enjoyable one) breezes along at a good clip with characters based on friends of her parents. This is a solidly British book. Lessing's second half levels things quickly, but it has a tendency to wander and her parents, perhaps justifiably so, become somewhat of less interest. By this point we know she has empathy for her wounded, diabetic father, and can't stand her mother. A lifetime of unrequited emotion has evidenced a toll on Lessing...enough to write a book, at least."Alfred & Emily" is composed of a great idea and one that comes close to working perfectly. It's worth the read, especially the fantasy section.
5 In the first part of this double biography (a fictitious and a real one), Doris Lessing asks herself what would have happened if ... the First World War had not taken place. `That war squatted over my childhood. And here I am, trying to get out from under that monstrous legacy. And trying to get free.'But during and after that war, another brutal, but psychological one was fought between mother and daughter: `My battles with my mother were titanic. I hated my mother.'After all those years, Doris Lessing is still yelling as a madwoman because her mother projected all her love on her younger brother (and left nothing for her): `I can remember (my hate) from the start ... by the birth of my brother.'In the `if-biography' of her parents, the latter don't even marry. Doris Lessing wouldn't have been conceived. She seems to say that in an `idyllic' world there is no place for war, be it a real or a psychological one, and no place for her. She wouldn't (shouldn't) be there with the monstrous rucksack mounted on her back for the rest of her life.In `idyllic' England all `war efforts' could have been spent on a higher living standard for everyone. Instead, in `real' England the young generation was slaughtered as cannon fodder. As her father said, `they were such good chaps, such fine men. And they all died in the mud of Passchendaele.'What saved Doris Lessing's life was literature: `No books have ever had such an effect on me as the great Russians.' But, that `I owe to her, my mother, my introduction to books.'There are also the feminist notes in these pages: `A fate worse than death, a woman without maternal instinct and no birth control.'If ... this astonishing non-biography had been real, we wouldn't have known the great writer, Doris Lessing, with her titanic emotional outburst and desperate cries for love.A must read for all fans of world literature.
5 In the first part of the book Doris Lessing imagines her parents lives as if they had lived easier and happier lives, lives in which they did not marry each other. Lessing is a first- rate storyteller and thus this part of the work is readable. But it is not really deep in feeling and not compelling on an emotional level.In the second part she tells the story of her father who lost a leg in the First War, and also lost most of his good friends there. A tough and determined character haunted by nightmares of the war he went on to make a new life for himself and his family- though the injuries of the war soon got to him and he died quite young at sixty after suffering greatly. Her mother who nursed the father during the war and enjoyed the time of their social whirl in Tehran also had an extremely difficult life. Lessing speaks of her terrible conflict with her mother and her having married to get away from her. She describes the world of her Rhodesian early years and the period of her early adulthood right after the war. She has a great ability to create an atmosphere of Time and Place. In speaking of her parents difficult emotional lives she makes the comment that 'children learn the emotions of their parents'. Certainly she gives a sense of having some of the same kind of toughness, and determination that her parents had. She also speaks of her mother's remarkable storytelling ability and how this was transmitted to her. This comes as a kind of grudging thank- you note to a mother who she repeatedly accuses of having interfered too much her life. Lessing also tells the story of her brother who narrowly survived the sinking of his ship in the Second World War, and who lived for many years with what she calls a kind of 'dullness' of mind. In an incident which sounds like it comes from one of the books of Oliver Sachs her brother received a knock on the head in his latter years, and it suddenly brought back the clarity of consciousness he had had before the ship incident. He died not long after claiming that most of his adult life he had lived being absent from himself. Here too Lessing describes the life of one she is very close to in a very effective way, but somehow without great warmth or loving feeling.For Lessing Life seems to be hard even if one is able to make a remarkable story of it.
5 I had not read before any of Lessing's books but I wanted to get to know this Nobel Prize winner writer... First book I found was Alfred & Emily... The first part, I was reading it and asking myself how this "Barbara Cartland"ish style could have won such an esteemed prize... It was so "soapy", "pink", "superficial" in every sense... However, I hung on, I made it to the second part... And there, I made acquaintance with the genious writer in Doris Lessing's person... The abrupt change of style was remarkable... The sentence structure which was so subtle in the soapy part, became shattered when telling the tale of shattered lives... The style which was so easy going in the pink part, became devious in describing the "no way out" life of her parents... Such sofistication of mastery of language is so unique.... Even if only for experiencing this sofistication, you should take "Alfred & Emily" into consideration...
3 This collection of personal reminiscences,while shallower than Coelho's novels, is nonetheless nice to read before slipping into sleep or as a prelude to a morning devotion. It also contains good stories to reinforce one's point in a presentation.Carol Stewart-High
5 I am sure that although I have read many of P. Coelho's works, I will return to these stories, and share with others the simple but profound stories held within this book.  Cud os PC for mastering the telling of love and kindness.  You inspire me!
4 Paulo Coelho - And, it has been a wonderful experience reading Alchemist and later, The Fifth Mountain and Like the Flowing River:Thoughts and Reflections. While the book narrates his experiences down the time, his writing is indeed poetic which brings in hope and joy to the soul. This book is an intimate collection of the Author and powerful short stories of life and spirituality - speaking of life, destiny, love and more. When I met the Author online through his writings, it had been pleasure placing him as a Columnist and reading his books and articles became my passion. Some of the titles covered in this book which I like most are:1. The story of the Pencil2. Genghis Khan and his Falcon3. On Manuel4. Restoring the web5. Raj tells me a story6. Statutes for the new Millenium7. On Rhythm and the RoadSo many - experiences and thoughts of Paulo Coelho and I am sure, you will love to read this book and treasure it, gift it. Enjoy.- ilaxi patelAuthor of Guardian of AngelsGuardian of Angels: A Practical Guide to Joyful Parenting
5 I can't get enough of your books and read and re-read them. I have transitioned from paperback into kindle versions for travelling. Beautiful title and story.
5 I wonder why did it take so long for this book to be published in USA. Coelho shares a lot of his personal life, his thoughts on several important issues - but I only could get my hands on it when I travelled to UK in 2010. I am glad to see that his publisher finally allowed the American readers to enjoy it
4 This book is written with plenty short stories to feed the soul. Some are wonderful stories and others are less. But overall concept is good, worth reading.
5 This book is great for the beginner as well as the more experienced watercolor painter. Detailed author...and an interesting and educational read.
3 Well, its not my style of painting, I like to paint a more realistic way, but for a Beginner, its an &#34;alright book&#34;
4 For those of us who struggle with art this is a good book.  Although not step by step it is better than most books.
5 
5 I teach a watercolor class at a college for seniors, and many people who sign on have never picked up a brush before.  I brought this book to class for the students to examine, and they thought it was a very good introduction.  I imagine you will sell a few more to class members.
5 This is an excellent book if your heart can take it.  The fact that it is a true story leaves you sad.  It is hard to believe what this little girl went through at such a tender age, when she should have been allowed to be a child and to enjoy learning and growing up.  May God bless all the foster parents out there that give their upmost care, love and patience to foster children.  Fabulous book and great price!
5 Told with frank, honest detail, this story will leave the reader with much to think about.  So many of the circumstances and flaws exposed in the English foster care system are prevalent here in the US.  Kudos to Cathy Glass and to all the other wonderful foster care providers throughout the world.
5 I have read my share of stories of "damaged" kids, and the awful lives they can lead at the hands of parents.  This story, although heartbreaking is more the story of the person who cares.  The one person this child could count on, even if the child wasn't aware of it was her carer.  The carer is truly the amazing one in this story.  Without the thousands of carers, and foster parents there wouldn't be even the slightest chance for some children.  They deserve our thanks!  It takes special people and special families to be able to help these poor kids.  I loved the book (although sad) and enjoyed learning a little more about the workings of social services.  I'd also recommend, "The Little Prisoner" by Jane Elliot if you enjoyed this book.
4 Wow!  I would forget at times that this was about an English child but was quickly reminded when they would mention currency or add a "u" to a word which normally wouldn't have one.  Very sad!  I kissed my own girls and held them tight after reading this book.
4 I still cannot believe this is a true story. It disgusts me that children are experiencing such horrible treatment. Amazing story, I'm glad I had the opportunity to read it and understand what still happens to those who aren't as blessed to have a loving and caring family.
5 Amazing book. As with all her other books it grabs your heart and makes you wonder how anyone can do these things to anyone let alone children.
5 A story that grabbed this reader and won't let go. Well written. It reminds me of  the behaviors of a few children I met in my thirty years of teaching children of this age group. And makes me wonder what more I could have done to help them. Childhood is no more of a carefree happy time than adulthood. Some children have a very difficult life, but as a classroom teacher one can only do just so much. This is a good book to read if you work with emotionally disturbed children, and what classroom doesn't have at least one.
5 I enjoyed all the casey watson books and bought this author because it was recommended. Will read all of her books also! These great people are doing great things for these troubled kids! Well worth the read. I had done fostering in the past, these women have tremendous patience with these children.
5 I love my kindle and the ease of purchasing kindle books for it.  I have already read this book and loved it :)
5 This book is a very touching sweet book that will keep you wanting to know what is happening next can't wait to read the next one in this series
4 This was the story of horrible abuse done to a child.  Very sad that this goes on I the world.  Wonderful that Cathy was empathetic and loving in the face of this damaged child.  Opening her home and heart.
2 This book is definitely not for the faint of heart.  By the time I was a third of the way into this book, I was shocked.  By the time I was halfway through, I was horrified.  I only finished it because I wanted to get something, ANYTHING, happy out of this story.
5 I just wanted to say I enjoy reading your books mainly because. Had my kids in foster care and I love to see there is good foster parents out there not so much in my daughters life but she's home now with me
5 This is a horrific unveiling of the worst kind of abuse told by a most amazingly unselfish person. You never doubt the veracity of the tale. I have no doubt the author downplayed the physical and emotional toll on her during the time she fostered Jodie.Easy to follow, well written and  a pleasure to read despite the subject matter. It is nice to see that there are people who care in a world that can be so dreadful.
5 So sad yet we know it is happening everywhere. Hard to put down great book. would love an update on Jodie.
5 Strikingly scary at times, the story of Jodie is one that I will certainly never forget. To think that this is true makes me feel awful.
4 I was enthralled, saddened, furious with this novel. So mad at the child's family. They ruined a human being. I felt so strong during it that her foster family would turn her around and once again make her a loving child that I had to read it all the day I got it. I kept thinking she was so disturbed she made it up. It was a good book but don't think it's fun reading.
4 The author describes her dealings with an emotionally damaged little girl and the sacrifice her family made to help her as best they could.
5 I adored the way that miss Glass wrote this story and I truly feel for her as a person. The facts are that u cannot save the world Cathy and u should not feel a failure to this one child. U hv done what u could to help the girl but it would of been impossible for super woman to fix that child. She is mentally handicapped as well as mentally ill. I can only hope that the trash who done that to her suffers in life as well as in hell. Keep up the excellent work and God bless u and your children.
5 Wow, this was a real tear jerker - and unfortunately there are hundreds of stores just like this in our world.  The way it was handled was superb - I recommend it highly
5 This is a great non fiction book written about a little girl who is taken in by a  Foster Parent who throws herself into trying to undo the damage that was done to this angry confused little girl.  I don't think people fully understand what abuse can do to a child and how they have to struggle their whole life even with the best foster care.  It is well written and powerful.  I highly reccomend it for anyone.
5 Thank god for those who are able to dedicate their lives to these children who really need them. easy read
3 Jodie's story is interesting and heartbreaking and Cathy Glass is an adequate writer.  Unfortunately, she's "tells" as opposed to "shows" and the book suffers for the dry, removed style of her writing.Instead of relating incidences in Jodie's life as they happen, she relates them in the past tense, which lessens the dramatic structure of the book.More use of adjectives and color would have helped the book tremendously.
3 But hard to read. I respect the patience of this woman and do wish there were more like her. I really wish that we ould change things so that stories like this don't have to happen. Even reading the words, I knew that I would never be up to this kind of task. On teh one hand, I think it may give some potential fosters false hope and on teh other, I fear it will simply discourage many more from even trying to foster.
5 This was such a sad book. Everyone should read it all the same. It is a tough subject to talk about much less read about.
4 This book was mind blowing in the aspect of the cruelty in this world but also the people like the author who are angels in disguise. Truely  an interesting book, and written well. I have to say though, it made me sad to read such horrific events of an innocent child.
5 What a great book but very disturbing what this child endured.  I hope her parents are in jail based on their actions.
5 The story is horrifying.Cathy Glass is a superb writer. "The ones that matter most are the children. They are the true human beings. " Native American saying.
4 Although this book was hard to read at times because of the disturbing content it was a book I'm very glad I read! The book was well written and gave the reader an insight into the world of foster care parents! Bravo!
5 The author (and I use author rather than Cathy Glass because Glass is a pseudonym she writes under)of this book is a foster carer in Great Britain.  It was interesting, as an aside, to compare the foster care/children's social service systems between the United States and Great Britain.  Other than that, I wouldn't say "Damaged" was interesting.  It was heartwrenching, profoundly moving, tragic.  It made me sob and feel vengeful, not only for "Jodie" but for all of our innocent children that are defiled across this world by the very people who should be protecting them the most fiercely - their parents.I have the utmost admiration for most foster caregivers and most social service people.  To some it is just a job but to people like the author it is their life's calling, one that I could never do.I would not recommend this book for early teens, at least without adult supervision and discussion, or for people who don't deal well with graphic sexual content and violence, especially if it is directed towards children.  I thought the author handled these sequences in the book very professionally but they are what they are- child sexual abuse.  The title of the book should be "Destroyed" because this little girl was permanently, irrevocably destroyed - she will never be whole.  And what does that say for the neighbors that turned a blind eye or the social service system that didn't follow through as it should have?This book reminded me of the impact another author had on my life - Torey L. Hayden, who is a special education teacher writing about some of her special needs students.  The first of her books I read wasOne Childand she went on to write more. I highly recommend both authors.  Just be prepared.
5 Wow it took me a lot longer to read this book then a book of the same size. I gave this book a 5 star due to the nature involved and the strength that Cathy Glass gave to try and help Jodie.If you have the emotional impact to be a foster parent then more power to you. This story was really hard to except. I got to emotionally involved myself with Jodie. As I read the book it was like I was her foster mom right along with Cathy going through the good and the bad. Cathy's other children are strong also to go through all this and in the end never giving up on her.Please read this book if your a foster parent or thought of becoming foster parent like I wanted to before I became ill or just into this type of reading andlearn of the angels out there making a difference.Have a great read!
5 I can't believe what I read it was well written and made you want to just take the little girl and make her past go away
4 I'm not sure I can read another of these books. It was well done, and it is a wonderful thing for Cathy to be able to provide stability and love to these children.
5 This book follows a foster carers difficult journey with a very hurt and angry little girl. I originally bought the book for both the cheap price and because of the underlying psychological meaning behind the story. I read this book in one night because I had to know the fate of the little girl, while sad you won't regret this read because towards the end you will be able to smile.
5 Having had foster children in my family, I thought I knew what they went through.  Boy was I wrong!  This book, about an abused child who is shuffled from family to family in her 8 short years is a true story, written by her last foster mother.  The pure, raw emotion will get you hooked if nothing else.  You will revel in every tiny victory and draw tears from every minor setback.  The physical abuse this child has endured in her young life will bring tears and anger to your very soul.  The plight of the caregiving mother will make you want to scream and shout at the Foster Care system as she tries everything in her power to help this small, innocent child and meets a stone wall at every end.  The main characters have so much depth that you feel as if you are part of this family.  It is emotionally heart-wrenching and will tug at your soul.  This is a definite must read and kudos to the author for telling the story so well.
3 I would recommend this book to those considering foster care - as insight that sometimes fighting for the appropriate care is more important than trying to do it yourself - and that is okay, not a failure.
5 I read this book, and felt the journey that this devoted author takes with her new foster child. Shocking revelations of the child's past and the system which was/is her only hope for a normal life. Gripping from beginning to end.
5 This book was hard to handle for me. The irreversible damage this child suffered is just terrible. Confirms my conviction that some people just shouldn't have kids ! Glad that her abusers got prosecuted and found guilty. They fully deserve it. I hope she fares well in life,as best she can...
5 I learned more about abused children and foster care from this novel than from any textbook. The author surely accomplished her purpose.  Good job!
4 I have read one other book written by this author and was impressed by the storytelling ability. Reading from this author has given me a wonderful insight into the world of foster care and the children that it affects. Cathy glass is a wonderful writer and I enjoy reading her work.This story is a great insight into the world of sexually abused children. Jodie` s story is an example of the most extreme of cases but still so important to be aware of, as there are still so many unreported cases of this type of thing going on all over.
5 Amazing story , had me in tears, love and patience and never giving up on abused and neglected children... Must read!
5 Riveting story from the first call to the last words. What a moving story of the damage caused to a child by horrific abuse and the slow unfolding of her story. This is a must read for anyone who works with children.
5 I kept wondering thru the whole book why they let the little girl stay in that home as long as they did it even stated they were aware of the problem. Why so many foster care givers were they just in it for the money? I feel that if something had of been done sooner she might of stood a chance of having a better life. Her social worker seem like she didn't care. She never even read the kids file. Is alot of the problem there isn't enough care givers who really care if the kids get help or not. I know that Cathy went thru alot. In my opinion it would take someone who really believed in God to ask for guidance and give thanks everyday. Sad part is there is alot of kids out there that need help and can't get it.
5 Cathy Glass is very famous in the UK and is becoming so in the USA. She is, as they say in England, a Foster carer; one who provides foster care to neglected or abused children. "Damaged" is a book that outlines the year in which Cathy Glass and her three children, against all odds, took care of an eight year old girl who had been sexually abused beyond anyone's wildest imagination. The book is a quest as to whether this girl could be saved or not.We get an important look at the British Child Protection services which, though filled with problems, is substantially better than the United States'.A study by National Child Abuse and Neglect Data System (NCANDS) states that one out of five children is abused emotionally, physically, or sexually by the time he or she reaches age 18.One. Out. Of. Five.Stop for a moment. Put this down and think about that. If it's a statistic that you read and it passed over you quickly like sink water, then we need for you to frame it within a context that you can understand. Place your right hand on the table and then count the digits. Most of you will count five. Now cut one of the digits off. Your choice. Choose whichever one you like, because the loss of this digit should be random. Just like a child.Picture a work week. Five days, for most of you. Select any one of those days. Tuesday? That's random enough. Now imagine that every single Tuesday you must endure torture. You will be denied food and perhaps you will be forced to wear filthy clothing. You will be assaulted randomly and you won't know when each attack is coming or from whom. You may well be forced to lean over a desk or a sink while someone sodomizes you. You may be forced to felate a stranger despite the fact that your gag reflex is causing you to vomit. Despite the fact that your nostrils; your mouth are filling up with your own bile and stomach contents you will have to continue. If not, you will be beaten, perhaps cut. Or burn. As we write these important facts about Ms Glass's book, we are wondering how much Amazon VINE will not allow us to print, deciding that it is "too vulgar." It's not too vulgar to publish in a book; it's not too vulgar to occur to a child, but to review it? We shall see.But this is only on Tuesday. On Wednesday you can go back to your life of regular day to day existence, when you know what to expect; the cards you will be dealt are rational, even if they are difficult. You may at least expect that you will have some kind of control and that the ways in which you are treated are rational; have some form of continuance to them. After all, it is only one out of five. Enjoy the other four work days. They are safe.Or this: You yourself are the parent of five children. Select one of them. Any one, it doesn't matter. This child will be tortured, violated, starved, degraded and then taught to believe that he or she deserves it. Go ahead. Select one of your children. If you don't do it, the nature of statistics will do it for you.Even if you are a parent of two or three: the fact remains that one out of five children are abused.This is an international emergency. There is no other crime statistic or emergency situation that tops this in terms of frequency or in terms of importance. Yet our culture continues to ignore it. DSS is so poorly underfunded and over worked that they the average case worker has more files on his or her desk than there are work weeks in a year. Not one of these workers will admit to it, but they could all tell you that they're seriously overworked; their desks loaded with files. What they do is triage. Many of the American ones are interns. They are tired and frustrated and they often take the blame for something that isn't their fault. Many of them are undergraduate students over their heads thinking they were coming here for observation hours.Schoolteachers are required by law to report any child whom they suspect has been abused. But how do you report a child who has not come to you directly or appeared with bruises? And if there's a child who is too terrified to admit that they've been abused, once DSS gets involved the child will swear up and down that they're being cared for at home. DSS shakes its head, leaves the residence and the child is beaten or punished severely for having spilled "the secret." Frankly, even though a mandated reporter may be sure, Social Services find the reports to be an irritation.International emergency.There are a number of ways in which to work on this problem. The first of which is that we, as parents and citizens need to be aware that one out of five children are abused. Perhaps even our own. We mustn't rule out the possibility that one of our children is being abused and we do not see it. Or that we choose not to see it? The second is that we must stretch the already over worked staff at DSS. The more we dump on them the more likely they are to become vocal in the fact that they're so dreadfully overworked and understaffed. Yes, their voices have been ignored so far, but isn't this what causes us to give up in defeat? Certainly this is the case with abused. And we have voices as well. And Representatives.Children. It may well be true for those who help them as well. And we must write our Senators and Representatives and let them know that more money must be put into Social Services. If we put the same amount of money into caring for our children as we put into national defense think for a moment how things might be different.Think again.Do we defend our borders with more vigilance than we defend our own children?Why do we have people who protest in front of abortion clinics but who will not stand in front of Social Services demanding that more money be spent on saving and protecting our living children?Why did President George W. Bush decide to return billions of dollars to the taxpayers of this country while there are children who are starving and succumbing to the vilest acts of terrorism imaginable? Why does this same president dare to speak about family values? What is a "war on terrorism" other than an oxy-moron. Our children require safety, not oil.Awareness. That's the number one step. You must become aware.Power. That's step number two. Do not underestimate the power that you, as a single individual, have over this situation. As you stand on your soccer fields and at your bus stops, discuss this issue instead of the color of your new sofa or the latest discussion of move along day and what teacher your child will have next year. As you look at that little girl who cries at the bus stop each morning or the little boy who arrives late, if at all, to soccer practice without water or a ball and deep down inside you know something's wrong, don't shake your head and then go to work. How about that fifteen year old girl who is always dressed in black and is considered bizarre because she has multiple piercings and cuts herself? She talks to no one, so no one talks to her. Do something about it. You can begin by reading this book.One out of five, folks.One out of five.
4 Interesting that our social services have the same problems.
5 As a voracious reader of many genres who experiences books in a visceral manner, and as a woman who was physically incapable of bearing children, I knew this story would be painful and tried to avoid it.  As numerous reviewers reported, I read it within a 24 hour period, turning the last page moments ago.  It is astonishing that despite approaching age 60 I am nevertheless shocked to my emotional core,, particularly because Glass admirably writes in a nearly clinical fashion, presumably to permit the revolting facts to speak for themselves.  To add any adjectives as plumage would possibly be misconstrued as pandering to the prurient.  I applaud the writer's rare gift to be at once both depressing and uplifting, exhausting and energetic, tedious and global.  To wit, she has taken material which might have been a ruthless indictment of British social services and injected sufficient humanity (doubtless derived from her personal experience as a lifelong caregiver) and painted a picture which despite pervasive ugliness resonates with hope.  As such, this book is a triumph demanding to be read b all who aspire to call themselves "citizens of the universe."
5 This books still haunts me ever time I see the picture of that little girl. I cried so much over this book. It just seem so unfair to know human beings are out there in this world that would treat a child like that. I know it sounds like I live in a closet. So be it. I hope those kind of people are punished for stealing a child's life like that.
5 Loved this story. This foster carer really gives her all and shares most of her thoughts and feelings as well as telling the story.
4 Yes a true story of an amazing woman with enough love to fill this land.  I recommend this book to all.  It holds great insight to those that have the ability to give so much more than others.
4 Its hard to believe that anyone could mistreat a child but these parents went beyond abuse.
5 I enjoyed reading this.  True story that is heart wrenching.  It was recommended to me by someone and I enjoyed it.
4 This novel is not for the faint of heart because it exposes the truly unspeakable details of child pornography and its malignant offenders.  These are stories that should be told.  I can only hope that this novel and others written by Cathy Glass encourage our governments to crack down on these abusers of children.
5 If this had been a work of fiction, it would be easier to read and then subsequently criticize for its unbelieveability. One does not want to believe a child could exhibit the disturbing behaviors and psychological damage that Jodie exhibits. The fact that this is a TRUE story just leaves the reader heartbroken. Bless Cathy Glass and her family for their selflessness.
4 I read this book, and immediately my heart went out to this child. Over and over again I found myself hoping for a happy ending for this girl, unfortunately there was none coming.  That is the sad reality of child abuse, some children become surviors (as I am), and others remain victims. I commend this woman for her foster work, we need a lot more people that are willing to go the extra mile (that is an understatement) and take in children that have no where to go.I Love You Baby Girl: A Heartbreaking True Story of Child Abuse (Not a Victim... But a Survivor)
4 I enjoyed the true story.  I'm glad there are people that are able to help children that need a good home.
5 So sad but a very good read. I recommend it. It does show what child services is really like. Not everyone is cut out to do the job but if you take it on you should really care about it. Thank goodness for the people that really care for the children
4 This is a very real and sad journal of one foster parent in England who took on a very brave adventure in trying to change a very disturbed child's life and make a difference.  What she learned and tried to handle was a look at what society has evolved to.  What the media does not tell us.
4 this was so well written that even tho it was a heartbreaking, tragic story I could hardly put it down.  I will definitely read more of Cathy Glass's books, but I need something lighter for now.  I hate to know that there are people that would hurt their kids like that, but it is heartening to know that there are also people that care so much!
4 Tragic story of a severely abused child written by a foster parent. Well written but difficult to read because of the disturbing subject matter. I work in the child welfare fiield. This book is very true to life. Everyone should read this book so these kids do not fall through the cracks of the system.
5 This heartbreaking story motivates every reader to do something about child abuse!It is also a powerful encouragement for the social work system to do more and better: which can only happen when we make the funding of child care our TOP priority!Eleanor Cowan, author of :A History of a Pedophile's Wife: Memoir of a Canadian Teacher and Writer
3 Noble effort on the carer's part but left the reader without any conclusions about the child.  The damage was extensive to the child and Her journey to repair would have been wonderful to know if even presented in an prologue.
4 Excellent book on a horrible topic. Disturbing and hard to imagine how anyone could do this and how a child could survive it. I will read more . Of Cathy Glass, but will need time in between books.A fast read.
5 This was a very good book.  I do hate to hear the things described in the book but the author did an excellent job expressing the feelings and thoughts of all involved
5 This book although repulsive at times is truthful as sad as that may be.  As a sexual assault forensic nurse it still was a rude awakening but very well written.Thank you.
5 This one will stick with you for the rest of your life I think.  I know it will be in my thoughts forever. I don't understand how adults can do such horrible things to little children.  Sickening story, but I think it is a must read.
4 This just shows how our system needs more people like Cathy. More people should read this book and should be placed in doctor's offices.
5 My heart goes out to the carers that give their everything to help these poor children.  God bless them and the precious children they care for.
